# Visual Media Document: Switchboard Tech
> Subject Matter: [[SB_Technology]], [[SBTech_Meta]]

Visual studies of the inspiration for the Switchboard's technology, with regards to the overall design language they exhibit.

## Fiction

#### Neon Genesis Evangelion
I cannot recommend enough that some time in your lifetime, you watch Hideaki Anno's *Evangelion*.

I watched it first with a friend and it was an absolutely gripping experience. A brilliantly-realized work with something for nearly everyone; for lovers of good tales to appreciators of bombastic fights to deliberators upon fictional worlds, *Evangelion* has the repute that it does because it is genuinely a brilliant work conceived in a rare mind, something sadly infrequent and fortunately timeless, in that appreciation for it has and will stretch far into the future, inspiring more and driving creative pursuits for times to come.

I think what gripped me the most in my time engaging with *Evangelion* wasn't the razor-edge story or the thumping fights and soundtrack or the world at a macroscopic scale, but something more subtle, latent, and easily overlooked; there was just something deeply eye-catching about *Evangelion's* computers.

It is a rather strange thing to draw focus to. They're computers. They've become something of a common sight in our time. We've come to accept that a critical element of day-to-day human living are these strange, boxy, plastic/metal/glass objects that dominate just about any flat surface with a chair close to it. When you touch them, they light up. You can caress them in them in just the right ways and they'll do just about anything you want for you. You can even make them sing if you're really good at it, and talk if you're even better. Sometimes they break too - much like us - and then you must take these strange boxes and pry them open with metal rods and blades, and find a means to jostle the fire and lightning back inside to the some semblance of working half-life. Of course, this description of the entire affair is wildly estranged to make a point across; my point being that these are familiar things to us now, but it wasn't always so.

Evangelion's computers feel strangely alien to us, and I reckon it's deliberate; by design. They are constructed in accordance with a design doctrine that we are no longer familiar with, because the world that prompted that doctrine to spawn is no longer one that we live within. Why Evangelion's computers and - more specifically, the user interfaces *on* those computers - feel and appear so striking and strange is that there is a prioritization of function over form that is indisputably apparent in every instance of them throughout its runtime.

Perhaps the most immediately apparent facet of this is the usage of contrast. All user interface elements are built off of a black baseplate, and in nearly no instance does it ever deviate from this. All elements that follow are displayed in bright coloration; extensive usage of reds, oranges and yellows, bright greens in various contexts such as indicators of normalcy, radar, topographical maps (and maps in general), graduated elements such as rulers and coordinate axes, analogue data readouts such as waveforms, and as further contrast to the usage of red. Red is used *extensively*, in text and numbers, timers, clocks, symbols and especially in alerts and indications of abnormality of any and all kinds. Orange follows red, though in the usage of more neutral elements; the names of whatever is of concern and thus being displayed on the subject screen, such as the location of an ongoing video feed, used as a demarcating element for other elements, boxing in related subject matter. It also is used in timers right before the final bits of their runtime, wherein they turn to red to indicate the urgency that comes with a rapidly shrinking chronological budget. Yellow is used much in the same manner as orange, used in lower priority cases such as text and various geometrics.

The consistency of this palette drove a sort finger-snap-quick recognition of Evangelion's design language both while watching it and outside of that. But while watching it, even a split-second glance at any given element or the totality of elements on the screen gave a working grasp of what information was aiming to be conveyed. This contrast-driven high-readability is further aided by the extensive usage of plane geometry and bold lettering, allowing for intuiting what is on display even with passing glances.

This does seem somewhat in contrast, however, with the fact Evangelion's user interfaces are *dense.* Nearly every screen is covered with elements that reflexively seem useful as they are shaped as if they are so. Graphs, waveforms, charts, readouts, annotated maps, labeled globes of longitude and latitude, endless rulers and graduations, wireframes of the human person and machine parts, all brilliantly realized in slick, speedy vector graphics, aggressively flickering and distorting in and out of existence, their shape defined by one data point and then skewed radically into new form by another. They accomplish it without looking cluttered too; everything does genuinely seem to serve some purpose with regards to what it portrays and where it is placed, even if ultimately that - for the few frames of animation it is visible - it really only conveys to you that some metric that should be high is now decreasing rapidly, and this is synonymous with impending catastrophe.

All of this splendidly-engineered interface pornography then being hosted on truly boxlike, archaic, nondescript hardware elevated the visual style of it that much further. The NERV control room/command center still remains one of my favorite set pieces in all of Evangelion, depicting the powerful, warlike central hub of all operations conducted in the universe, its resemblance to a warship's bridge being anything but coincidence, I assure you. All of Evangelion's hardware is like this, might I add, built with a marked insistence on minimalism and robustness that could not have been mere accident. Computers in Evangelion were still devices with large, physical buttons clusters, dials, sliders akin to the ones on audio mixing equipment, blinking lights, analogue and often even physical paper readouts, and hollowness to their assembly that allowed climbing *inside* them for repairs. They did everything over hard line cable, often encased in thick pipe. They took disks and magnetic storage. Cooling was a full-sized system on its own. Anything worth looking at was labeled. Anything worth touching was built with large hands in mind. You won't catch anything there dead without a full-size keyboard.

Let's shelve that thought, and go elsewhere.

## Non-Fiction
### The Apollo Missions
The Apollo missions that took mankind to the Moon are fairly well-known to us all, culminating in human feet touching our closest celestial neighbor, a major bookend in the endless tome that was American excellence, the utterance of many poignant, hard-hitting one-liners, and mind-numbing conspiracies for years to come.

In particular I encourage taking a look at the old Apollo mission control room, especially with a focus on the parallel lines of consoles where all the magic happened. I want to focus on those consoles in particular. So many years after the triumphant sojourn to our celestial neighbor, they've inevitably come to look quite dated, but no less visually striking. There is an air that the cathode ray tube displays have come to cultivate what with their subtle curve, recessed mounting, inch-thick glass and just-slightly-off colors that speaks to compromises made in one place to splurge on others. The vector graphics that frequently cover them - waveforms, orbitals, payload trajectories, longitude and latitude - give an air of immense utility.

The illuminated, labeled button banks leave minimal room for error, similarly expressed with binary switches and robust dials for analogue input. Very distinct is the manner of mounting; each console seemingly has metal handles, as well as thumb screws on the front panels, that speaks of a very agile approach to reparability. It was perhaps very commonplace that a malfunctioning machine was quite literally pulled out of its housing and replaced with a redundant one kept in storage for this exact purpose, coupled with documentation that makes replacement as swift as possible. Repair wasn't an option in their circumstances; downtime had to be eliminated, not minimized.

I imagine the uniformity of color was hardly an artistic choice. Research on the topic led me to discover 'formica', something approaching metamaterial territory in sheer utility. Resistant to heat, acids, alcohols, alkalis, wipe-clean, scratch, dent and wear resistant and a splendid insulator. All the while being light and a plastic, thus being incredibly easy to work with. It was used extensively in building electronics of the decades of computer technology under study today, and worked alongside other similarly capable materials like ABS plastic. While I cannot explicitly confirm that this is what the Apollo computers were made out of, I imagine that something fitting the designations of 'light, hard, strong, easy to work into various shapes and a electrical insulator' are not too far off from whatever was submitted to the contractors.

I went deeper. I looked into the brains of the Apollo spacecraft, the AGC or 'Apollo Guidance Computer'. Commanding guidance, navigation and general control of spacecraft, it was the first machine based on silicon integrated circuits, a nontrivial leap forward in digital computing.

The necessity of precision for the Apollo missions meant computers did much of the flying, with humans taking over only in instances where they were truly necessary. I could go on about it - and I truly do encourage looking into it, it's thoroughly interesting stuff - but much of what I found fascinating was how the technology of the time and the constraints inherent to it influence s the design of that same technology.

The 'DSKY Interface' or 'DIS-kee' as it was often pronounced caught my eye a fair bit. Few things I feel encapsulate the air of the era than this two-screen, ultra-utilitarian instrument that took input via two-digit number entries broken into 'verbs' and 'nouns'; what to do and what it's done to. They were mounted to control panels in virtually every vehicle the AGC was mounted to as well. NASA very much pioneered modern computing, what with the first ever implementation of various computer design and techniques that proved themselves in the depths of space and came back to be employed widely today.

I'm somewhat working towards something.

The Apollo 11 Command Module is very much like taking Mission Control and compressing it down to roughly the size of a shoebox. I don't think there is very much I could ever say about it that could ever adequately capture what it must have been like to work within it. The control interface remains a visual feast as always, every instrument tactile, labeled, painstakingly designed, mission-critical, shod in dull material that earned its right to be there by sheer chemical competence, and built for the rigors of the operating context. 

Which brings me perhaps, to my final point for this section. Flight, is very, very hard.

There is a human longing that has hovered around the concept of it for the longest time. It was made manifest in old myths, like Icarus'. It was realized in the sketching of aged artists, inventors and architects - da Vinci's 'flying machines' or aerial screws come to mind. And it was achieved at last by the Wright brothers. Once that barrier was crossed, doing it again became commonplace. But it was never truly 'easy'. Perhaps the context of space is what makes it so, as space itself is hard. It is uncooperative. It seemingly spends quite a bit of effort trying to remind us that we don't belong there. But we go anyway, because we are driven. But doing so has demanded from us a different manner of approach. We had to build *for* space. You had to build with the mind that errors, failure - no matter how small - meant death. We had an understanding of what an unceremonious crash to the ground meant, and we had to build - our brightest minds had to build the brightest things - to account for that.

That the computers, vehicles - everything - of the Apollo era took the shape they did I feel is no coincidence. It is quite simply what it takes. We have deviated from that plenty in form but absolutely not in function. Flight remains hard, and we've gotten harder in response, and we will have to do so as we yearn to go longer distances. This will demand from us novel building methodologies, and the shape the products of this take will be similarly skewed.




#### Meta-analysis
