# The Doctrine of Passing
There are no truer realities than that of life and death. All things that live must die. We, however, can take comfort in what separates those two things - time - and seek to make the most of it, such that when death comes and we are asked to return to the Current, we are not without satisfaction at the lives we have led. 

	This is a pretty apt place to put the discussion on Strider Philosophy as this pillar of ritualism deals with living as a Strider from birth to death. 
	Strider Philosophies
	- The Hated Path
	- The Grounded
	- Strider Death, the 'Doctrine of Passing'
	- Strider Philosophies; Goldman's Principles
	- The Sunward Ordeal and Rites of Passage

**Doc/Pass**
- Goldman/Silkhand Principles
- 'Striders Must Not Become Gods'
- Service, Curiosity, Bravery
- The Sunward Ordeal: Virtue in Struggle

## Concepts
A series of concepts relating to life, being and death within the Switchboard and wider Strider society.

### Chalk to Chalk
When Striders or any living thing in the Switchboard dies, their lattice unspools, become dissociated ribbon chalk that rapidly loses the many individual functions and the like attached to it, become pure, unblemished, unutilized ribbon chalk that returns to the Switchboard. It may dissociate further into dust chalk and become latent in the environment, or joining more chalk and deposit as crystals in a great Wellspring, or ride a current and become Stardrip in the Void. The fate of that chalk isn't the important bit, it is that all Striders - irrespective of feat and feature - will one day return to the Switchboard the chalk they were once woven from in wombs or Conjugates. 

The realization of this gave rise to a manner of thinking in the Switchboard, a 'cyclicality' of chalk that went deeper than merely a very efficient universe-wide recycling system. It was suspected that chalk that was once Striders returns to the skies and comes back as those Striders in fragments, their power, intellect, knowledge, teks, relics, ritual schema they knew, all inscribed on and woven from ribbon, deposited all over the Switchboard, waiting to find their way into the nooks and crannies of the descended generation, igniting new tales and new sojourns across the great Sky. And the cycle begins anew.

### The Current
The Sil'khan call it '**The Leydin Dance**', the Fel-Arcad; '**The Great Weave**', and the Vahnkin gave it the name '**The Endless Tide**'. All are terms for the same thing; the philosophy around knowledge that the Switchboard's chalk is ancient and newborn at the same, existing in a unending loop that sees the powers and knowledge of the ages before bestowed upon the ages now and the ones to come. Most simply, it is called **The Current**.

Knowledge of the Current drives many Striders forward. When they have nothing higher to pursue, live or fight for, then they at least aspire that some part of themselves is preserved and lives on through the Striders that come after them. 

'Live well so that you may give back to the Current from which you arose.'

Living and fighting *for* the Current, as it were, is seen as the highest duty asked of all that wield the power to weave chalk and walk the Great Sky. Preservation of the Current, the elements that make it, all that concerns it - is essential for the continued existence of the Switchboard, for the birth of new Chalkweavers and Striders, for their empowerment, for their enlightenment, and to enable them to make some lasting change on the Great Sky and all that dwell in it as well.

### The Sunward Ordeal
The stars of the Switchboard are seen as many things; the source of all life, all power, all things even, in the Switchboard. Markers for navigation. Cultural sources of strength to which Striders can point and say, 'the stars still stand, we live yet another day'. The stars of the Switchboard being so out-of-reach to even the strongest Striders inspires many to aim for them nonetheless - to do not just that, but hard things in general. To do hard things, to dare mighty things, to pursue ideals, to realize dreams even if it takes reaching the ends of the earth - that is the **Sunward Ordeal**; the deification of struggle. 

All Striders are somewhat expected to pursue something - irrespective of scale, difficulty or significance to other Striders. Something must be done. Something must be chased. A name must be earned for oneself, and the means of doing so is picking a path and walking it as far as one can before they must return to the Current once again. For many, finding this path is easy, for others, they may never truly find it and will resign themselves to accruing many small or even significant achievements, but none that serves as the perfect chisel cutting deep into the slate of the Switchboard. The Strider returns to the Current restless and un-wholly accomplished, and that restlessness - that hunger for purpose - makes its way through the Current and is woven into the lattice of a new Strider.

	It is a narrative point then, that the vast majority of Striders are never content. While the Sunward Ordeal aids in answering any questions posed to a Strider on their deathbeds, it does not speak on whether the one answering the questions is truly satisfied with the life they lived to give them the answers they did.

Sunward Pursuits as a Strider are ones of learning and doing. Growing powerful through fame and infamy. Learning all there is to know as a source of strength. Daring to do mighty things, the consequences of which ripple through the entire Switchboard. While the chalk of a Strider will return to the Current, the names of the Strider will not, and insignificant Striders and Weavers are lost to time, living on only as fragments in proxy-descendants. And while ensuring that what one passes on to their Current-descendants are positive qualities, Striders are also notoriously obsessed with legacy, and living on beyond their bodies as thought in the minds of others, and actions that stand as chisel marks on stone - declarations most clear that they were once there, and they could not be forgotten. The Sunward Ordeal encapsulates this philosophy, that one's struggle will one day become one's name, and all that will be known about a Strider will be solely what they prioritized and appended their name to. 

### The Hated Path
For every law there is sin. For every one that chooses to walk a path, there are those who willfully spurn it. Just as many Striders pursue higher truths, power, legacy, and leaving boons for others behind in the Current, there are those who choose to live only for the life they have, doing nothing expected of Striders, pursuing no lofty aims or the like. 

With the Sunwards Path comes the Hated Path, a somewhat amorphously-defined set of behaviors and manners of thinking - a kitchen sink almost - that wider Strider society have deemed poor practice, warranting condemnation.

	Come back to this one.

### The Samsara Protocol
	Something speculative. Take with considerable helpings of salt.

	It is theorized that there exists means to escape the Current. That through some method, a Strider could enter the Current - alive and wholly, lattice intact - be unspooled and then rewoven back to their selves - body renewed - and return to life. It is theorized that the machinery for this is a structure or the like simply called the 'Outer Path'. It is - expectedly - the highest secret pondered by calcic kind.


### The Tapyr
The Tapyr or the Tapestry is a fairly novel concept in the Switchboard, and sees most of its study and followership among the various Striders that are driven to exist beyond death through feats. The Tapestry is a recording of a Strider's actions in their time, but it is granted increased significance by a sort of 'deification' bestowed upon it. For many - and especially Academy Striders - the Tapyr exists as a record of their successes that will survive their return to the Current.

When the metaphor of 'chisel-blows on marble slate' is used, it is referring to actions taken that lengthen and add weight to the Tapyr. 

The actual record of the Tapyr however, is rather strange, as it is less so a record written somewhere, and rather something that seemingly radiates *from* a Strider, fraying off of them like trailing ribbon. A fistful of lore - almost - in hand in the form of scrolls that drape from a Strider's back like a cape that bestows their wake with the weight of their feats, and just as it grants them power in their present, it serves to immortalize them in the future.

## The Passing
In which we discuss the life of those who dwell in the Switchboard, or rather what constitutes a life to them. From birth to death. Infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood, old age. Life stages and how they are marked. What happens when. What it means for a life to have truly been lived. 

### Unequal Scales
Beginning a discussion on the lives of those in the Switchboard demands mentioning of the fact that the life expectancy of a denizen of the Great Sky varies wildly. The most foremost cause of this is - curiously - the Strider Protocol, though some additional factors come into play.

While the Law Stars of the Switchboard give it life, they do so at arm's length. Ingesting pure oxygen kills cells. Drinking too much water dilutes essential electrolytes we need to function. And straying too near the stars exposes the Strider to amounts of calcic starlight vastly exceeding the amounts felt by those on a region, due to the shielding effect intrinsic to a region's equation.

Over only a few short jaunts interspaced by long periods, a Strider's lattice could repair the damage done by **starblight** - a temporary accumulation of excess chalk on the Strider's lattice that is too pure for their Five Straits to assimilate. Over time, the Five Straits will gradually devour the rich calcic deposit as the Strider burns previously-contained chalk in the usage of their calcic abilities. However, a frequent user of the Strider Protocol, a Strider that sees themselves making long and highly delicate strides frequently will quickly accumulate more starblight than their lattice is able to digest. While it may not lead to overwrite, it takes a toll on the Strider's life expectancy that's fairly prominent. 

The following question then is who or what kinds of denizens of the Switchboard find themselves striding the most and least frequently? 

	The following section is fairly conclusive, but not entirely. Some bits are subject to change based on how I imagine they will affect narrative.

We can begin with an arbitrarily selected average life expectancy in the Switchboard of roughly **eighty processions**. Dying around this time is seen as having lived - if not a fulfilled life - then a long one. With this number in hand, we may then begin skewing it on a per-family basis.

Remaining **largely unchanged** is the Lancastars. Lacking the power to Strider or the vulnerability of Striders to starblight, their life expectancy is largely dependent on more mundane factors such as the genetic lottery, lifestyle and environs. Lancastars who dwell in regions where the regional equations fold chalk into pure vitality for its dwellers will find their life span expectedly lengthened. 

Also remaining fairly unchanged is the Vahnkin, though this is due to a statistical average taken from two extremes of immensely short and immensely long life expectancies. Vahnkin dwelling in the Switchboard are doubly vulnerable to starblight, and though the depthstride means they realistically will never need to go close to a Law Star, dwelling in their light - even under the protective screen of a region - will accumulate starblight slowly but steadily. Vahnkin dwelling in Isalveh, however, can renew their vitality by drinking of the **stardrip**. What would normally be toxic to striders and weavers is instead a source of health and strength. Granted, a considerable quantity of stardrip must be drunk over an extended period of time to produce noticeable changes in life expectancy, and its effectiveness diminishes with time. Vahnkin born and dwelling in the Sky can expect to live to about **sixty processions** before succumbing to starblight-accelerated aging, this number further modified by exposure to Law Star light. Vahnkin who dwell in Isalveh and make it a point to frequently drink of the stardrip can see life expectancies of about **twice the average**, resulting in about **140-180** processions. The upper ends of this is usually only reached by Enclaven of the Conclave.

The Fel-Arcad - with their hyper-optimized living in the arcologies, constant interaction with vitality-enhancing rituals, and abstinence from various body-affecting vices - live the longest of all the families, easily enjoying lifespans into the hundreds of processions, the oldest nearing **400** processions, before their lattices finally collapse after repeated tuning and touchups. Fel-Arcad who live outside the arcologies and indulge in the manners of living that the arcologies do not allow will find their life expectancy fairly close to the average, though skewed upwards by their intrinsic vitality.

Both blessed and cursed by the Strider Protocol, the Sil'khan see the shortest lifespans of the bunch, driven mainly by the cultural significance the Strider Protocol holds to them. The Sil'khan live hard, burn bright and hot, and die soon, with many expecting to live only to about **40 or 50 processions** around the Astrolabe. Sil'khan do enjoy a quirk however; repeated drinking from the Wellspring cleanses their lattices of starblight and renews their strength, and similarly - but less so - to the Vahnkin, continuous drinking from the Wellsprings extends their lifespans. However, old Sil'khan are rare, and even with religious devotion to drinking from the Wellsprings, it is **rare still to see a Sil'khan living past 60.**

## pNarrat Concepts
Discussion on a number of topics that directly tie into the nature of living in the Switchboard, particularly in how it will be realized in narrative. 

### pNarrat Concept: The Social Implications of the Strider Protocol
The Strider Protocol has namely two social effects on those who wield it; it isolates them, and it allows them for living 'faster'. The nature of the Strider Protocol as an isolationist force is inherent to the fact it allows placing vast distances between the user and others, and placing these vast distances is incentivized by the nature of the Switchboard as a place filled with adventure.  Despite the fact that the Law Stars upon which the Strider Protocol depends also gradually kills its practitioners, it is a death slow enough as to be accepted as inevitable as death itself already is. 

The second aspect, living faster, has the effect of 'slimming down' the nature of the Strider's social interactions. Striders are very much subject to the adage of rolling stones gathering no moss. A Strider can be in twenty different cities in a day, and sleep under a different star each day of a week, and while these are all experiences and the sum of them is indeed something decently 'large', they are lacking in a depth that comes only from slowing down, pausing, taking time to grow roots in a context and form connections with those present in these contexts. Striders find themselves living and running alongside other Striders mainly, because only Striders can keep up with each other, and the only connections that can be formed are ones that, when the context is adjusted for speed, what is observed changes from someone moving faster than a relatively static world, to a slow world that can't keep up with someone relatively static. Striders form their bonds at thousands of kilometers an hour, and so are constrained often to only forming somewhat lasting friendships and bonds with other Striders. 

That being said, the consequence of living faster means that Striders are naturally constrained to doing things that fall within the bands of 'living faster'. They are encouraged - compelled almost - to pursue only things that demand usage of the Strider Protocol in their pursuit. Traversing the stars, travelling to far-flung sectors of the Switchboard, exploring regions, chasing rumors and 'x's on the map in hope some great reward such as artifacts or Teks or ritual schema - power in any and all forms - awaits them at the end of it. Testing mettle in fighting the multifarious threats that dot the skies. Proving the sheer depth of their strength in kache krashing operations against the mighty vaults. Striders pursue things, power and accolades. It helps to ask what is a 'win condition' for a Strider. What is a social victory for a wielder of the Strider Protocol?

An answer to that is found in [[The Cyclicality of Names]]. By living and acting in the Switchboard, traversers of it build repute and rumor, and these two things translate into physical, tangible power. They weave themselves into the grand tapestry of the Switchboard's tales. They are yet another chisel-blow on the marble slate of the Switchboard's history. Performing feats as a Strider earns the adoration of other Striders - social victory. Striders' social victories do not rest on actually strong social bonds, but rather Striders are reminiscent of real-world celebrities who almost feed off of the adoration of an amorphous blob of people defined only by number and what unites them - their adoration for the person who serves as the subject matter. 

Striders then live as thrill-seekers. The Strider Protocol facilitates that. A Strider is able to look skywards and knows from the tales told by those who came before that what exists out there to be seized for themselves is nigh unlimited. There will always be more frontiers to explore, more Teks to wield, more relics to find and forge, more rituals to discover or draft and perfect, more great beasts to slay, more rogue Striders to pursue, more powerful vaults to raid and vault minds to topple. There will always be more, more, more. And so the Strider is never content, driven constantly to go faster, farther and pursue more, at the expense of any and all that can't keep up. 

We see this in the existence of Strider jumpships as described in [[Switchboard Technology]]. The endlessly nomadic lifestyle practically forbids the existence of any kind of home that is not only slightly less mobile if not just as mobile as the nomad who owns it, and as such, most dedicated Striders live out of their jumpships, outfitted with amenities for living but overall serving as highly practical and utilitarian extensions of the Strider themselves. Jumpships do not play by the rules of the Strider Protocol, and so what they sacrifice in pure speed they make up for in carrying cargo, going equivalent distances far more safely, and serving ultimately as a forward base for a Strider's operations. The lifestyle of living out of ships on foreign worlds is again, a resultant of the isolationist nature of the Strider Protocol.

The thrill-seeker mindset is further reinforced by the prohibitively short lifespan of active Striders. The rhetoric is fairly simple in that with so much promise given by the stars above, and the only barrier for accessing it already dispensed with, it would be criminal, indefensible, unforgiveable, to not pursue it in earnest. Doing everything there is to do, experiencing everything there is to experience, all this and then going ever further to find the 'and then some' that's not outrightly promised, but written in the metaphorical fine print. And even though the pursuit of the things meant to add meaning to a short life is what results in the short life in the first place, further rhetoric argues that a long life isn't necessarily a meaningful or enjoyable one. And while this is true, this line of thinking is skewed by the fact that Striders as a whole do not know how to live as anything *other than* Striders, and this is due to the fact that the Strider Protocol cultivates a cult around it where those who possess it are seen as 'more' and those without it - the Grounded - are seen as less.

The tenets of this cult are simple; the life lived by the Grounded is torturous. It is slow. It is colorless. It is lacking in grand cosmic purpose the way the life of a Strider's does in its service to the current. Their 'achievements' are minute and pastoral. They lack power and the means to change anything. They lack the ability to contend with higher things. They - most of all and worst of all - do not pursue legacy the way Striders do; they do not aim to carve as deep a cut in the marble slate of the Switchboard as Striders do. They do not aim to subsist in some manner beyond the years they are allotted, and to the cult of the Strider Protocol, that is sin. The insistence on parleying with the 'slow' - the weak, the sick, the unintelligent, the undriven - is seen as sin. To take actions that tie one down - start families, businesses, organizations - is seen as sin. The Strider Protocol fanatic cannot conceive of the existence of value in things it views as small, slow and simplistic. The Strider Protocol fanatic abhors the idea of doing anything that could serve as some sort of binding opposing their endless pursuit of power and experiences across the Switchboard.    

These fanatics naturally find a home in the Spyndl Academy, in which mere years of training sets them up with like-minded persons that they are able to run alongside and compete with as they see fit. As Operators, purpose is given - bestowed upon them - by a cabal of veteran Striders with aims of their own they pursue. A path towards greatness is lain out; serve the Academy, fight, learn and explore, and the skills and knowledge obtained translates to accolades and more power. Your name will never stop being uttered in the hallowed halls. Your actions will breathe drive and mission into thousands others to come behind you. You will exist even after death in a manner that *matters*. The Academy adopts an almost anti-family stance; spouses are hinderances, children even more so. If you absolutely have to, do the Conjugation, and preferably with another Strider or Academy Operator so that the resulting descendant is fairly capable of fending for themselves. Do nothing that restricts the ability to chase and chase. Never stop. Never settle. Never pursue anything that seems to demand stillness. The only thing that should stop you is death.

And so we can then ask ourselves a final question, what is the shape of a wielder of the Strider Protocol? Ravenously hungry. Its hands and feet are alabaster-white from processions of drinking from the Wellsprings. Between its fingers, under its skin, in its hands - is terrible power and control over the world around it. It moves fast - incredibly so - in any and all contexts. Like an idol in an abandoned shrine, it is incredibly lone in its existence, even if there are many like it. It is a paragon, an emblem of some terrifying doctrine, that makes deities out of ordinary, starry-eyed, dreaming men. It is anti-human and yet terribly human in some perverted way. It burns bright and yet cold, and it dies like a distant star. And from its corpse do newborns like it arise, vocal in what their paragon represented, often violent, but always steadfast. 

The Strider Protocol inculcates in its users a strange kind of human inhumanity, a form of hedonism and masochism, a cocktail of harnessable dysfunction that sees Striders become as blank-faced, apathetic gods, whos fervid discontentment-driven pursuits inevitably cool into a passivity born out of the eventual realization that nothing in the depths of infinity seem interesting enough to chase, or the next height to achieve is so cripplingly high as to break the spirit of all those even considering it. And so the Strider is left with his accolades to rest upon, which are only as relevant as others determine they are. And then they begin a slow, grating rot, a solitary, slow slipping into death as their lattice gradually fails. The shame of it keeps them from making themselves visible, and so very few see how the loftiest Striders die, the information simply reaching them by some means, and rumor taking over, fabricating a tale of defeat at the hands of the truly most tyrannical of the Switchboard's terrors. And that inspires Strider minds to be as them. And the cycle begins anew. 

### pNarrat Concept: Grounded Philosophy
As it stands, the primary source of narrative conflict in the Switchboard is that of a difference in philosophy between Striders and Grounded. Analyzing the Strider Protocol and its social effects gives a fairly solid idea of the 'philosophy' of Striders, most particularly an analysis of how possessing the Strider Protocol and living as it compels one to to do serves to shape a Strider's perspective on the Switchboard.

We can then begin analysis of the other side of the fence, that of the Grounded and their philosophy. Because just as Striders look down on the Grounded, the Grounded in many ways look down on Striders. And while one would assume that the power and utility of the Strider Protocol would provide a dimension to human experience that makes all other shapes of experience lacking it to appear inferior, deeper inquiry into the subject reveals the many glaring flaws and cracks in Strider philosophy, through which less than savory aspects of human character are accentuated. 

The Grounded's philosophy is formed primarily as a reaction to what has been dubbed 'Strider Inhumanity'. It seeks to analyze every aspect of the philosophy created by the existence of the Strider Protocol and dismiss them in some regard. In short, it is an anti or counter-philosophy.

It begins with the abject isolationism created by the Strider Protocol. Striders are lonely. Even when they manage to forge friendships, these friendships are rarely ever permanent due to the ease with which Striders can create distance from each other, and the various reasons why they may choose to do so. The Strider Protocol - and more specifically, the Academy - are seen as fostering and adopting anti-relationships stances where Striders are incentivized to not form 'ties' with others as the only serve to tie them down. The anti-family and even anti-natalist stance of the Academy is greatly criticized for this, as Grounded philosophy argues that 'things' - plunder from the sky, accolades, straight power - cannot take the place of people.

Not necessarily as a counter-doctrinal method, but definitely running counter to Strider logics, the Grounded value families and descendants. The Grounded see their social victory in the form of parents, spouses and children. What the Grounded value are people and relationships with them, which they view as more tangible, longer lasting - more valuable - than what Striders value.

It ties nicely then into the Grounded living slower lives that Striders. Striders rarely have homes. They have places they were born, and places they may frequent, and places that if they found themselves battered and on the verge of death, that's where they know they'd find people ready to help them, but rarely do Striders have homes that are physical places populated by people. Striders are nomads, and thus anything that is a home to them is something that comes along with them. For many, that's their jumpship. The Grounded do not live this way, and actively criticize it for forgoing the essential concept of roots. Striders do not build things that last. Or build things at all. They arrive and stay only as long as it is comfortable, or practical, or absolutely necessary, and on the first opportunity they are rocketing off again. And in this lack of slowness do they not pause to appreciate the finer things that exist in a given context. As an analogy, imagine trying to judge a city based on how it looks as you pass through it on a fast-moving train. It becomes indecipherable blur, and the conclusion you may draw is that it is merely color melded together that swiftly grows dull. But the Grounded, who live slowly and methodically, also live appreciatively. They grow to value the smaller things and the large things, as opposed to Striders who only value the larger things due to them maintaining some semblance of decipherability even when observing at speed.

Striders are further criticized for not building. Striders are not cultivators or builders. They do not take the time to plant things, nurture them and watch them grow. They are not patient enough to stick through the time-demanding nature of creative processes. When Striders do 'build', their creations are glaringly utilitarian, prioritizing the extraction of maximum utility. When they are done with what they build, they are designed to collapse swiftly and rot or be packed and folded away for reuse elsewhere, leaving the general 'proof' that a Strider was once present being either emptiness or ruin. Because Striders do not attach value to places, they are not driven to further improve those places, leading the Grounded to argue that a universe filled with Striders alone would be filled with nothing but outposts, radio towers, large academy complexes and jumpship fueling stations, all in various states of disrepair. It is the Grounded who build; grand, beautiful cities, works of art and architecture that last years, buildings that drip with history and serve to nurture and shelter the future. The only thing Striders build up is themselves.

Leading further into the criticism of Striders as 'ontologically selfish'. They are incapable of acting without personal incentive or the assurance of it. Striders take out of principle; the Switchboard exists to be taken from and added onto the self. Interpersonal dealings that exist among the Grounded simply do not exist similarly among Striders, and while the Grounded frequently give out of the goodness of heart or understanding that others may need some thing more than they do, Striders are rarely driven to act similarly, seeing every small thing as earned through considerable strife - as theirs, as a part of them like a limb - and simply not something to easily part with. A sort of exception to this is Striders who lead or train other Striders, who naturally will pass down things they are no longer using to those behind them, but this is absolutely not exclusive to Striders.

Striders are also argued as to be incapable of 'simple' fun. Fun to Striders is necessarily grand. It is tackling beasts or exploring dangerous locales or contending with higher powers. Fun for the Grounded is simpler things; cards and picnics and board games and cookouts and simple strolls or sports or community gatherings. It results in Striders being unable to enjoy anything that doesn't cause adrenaline spikes, or demand full utlization of the mind and body and every single skill and power they possess. A Strider is placed in an empty cubical room with no distractions or challenges demanding something from them - and they swiftly turn mad, unable to be left without something to do for too long. The Grounded describe Striders as borderline children.

And these criticisms go further. Striders are never content. They are overtly proud. A considerable number of them are incapable of resolving conflict through any means other than violence. They are destructively competitive with themselves and each other. They do not understand leisure as anything other than doing slightly easier work. They are chemical fiends, and anything that can be described as a 'softer' or more 'relaxing' experience for Striders is facilitated by altering substances. It's talked about in particular how the short lives of Striders is a driving force behind the ways they think. 

Two final major criticisms though, are that of legacy and becoming Slow. The Grounded decry Strider legacies as hollow. A Strider amasses enough things to fill warehouses and enough accolades to fill libraries, and in their passing they are returned to the Current. But all that is left of them is objects and records. Nothing that lives or breathes. The Grounded argue that true legacy is in the form of descendants - children - that take up the feats of their ancestors and continue their tales with their own. Striders do indeed inspire the next generation of Striders, but they often all go on to pursue unrelated things. Striders who start things rarely finish them, and it is uncommon for a Strider to arise and live in a manner that drives change through the wider Strider population.

The second of the last criticisms is that of becoming Slow. Striders who lose their Strider Protocol are broken beyond repair, and the compulsion to suddenly live in manners they never have before - or worse, actively despised - results in deeply wounded subjects that swiftly descend down paths of fiery destructiveness or cold depression. Observed in many cases is suicidal ideation, that sees many Striders viewing death as preferable to living a life where they can no longer fly. The Grounded see this as a final proof of the dysfunction created by the Strider Protocol.

### pNarrat Concept: The Praxis Clash
The resultant of the opposing philosophical vectors is a unified search for meaning and purpose. Where we see an effect of the differing philosophies is in those who seek to meaning from the other side. Many Grounded see the recruitment posters placed by the Academy and feel a hunger to escape the drudgery of simplicity to chase the stars. And a fair many Striders see the families of the Grounded in the rare moments they spend standing still, and feel a yearning for such a lifestyle.

But the pressure created by fanatics and the easily-led on both sides create a considerable opposing force that demands compliance and living in line. To admit that a rival doctrine has merit is to weaken one's own, and so there is tangible incentive in preserving frigid dealings if not outright animosity with the other side. Institutions like the Academy need its Striders and Operators to remain ever steadfast, and institutions like the Ex-Strider Outreach Initiative only see success in a Switchboard where Strider manners of thinking are actively dissuaded. 

And in this do we have the grounds for a praxis clash. The conflict of the Switchboard exists in constant rivalry between manners of living, in a bid to prove that one is philosophically superior to the other.

### pNarrat Concept: Acquiring Doctrine
Doctrines in the Switchboard are guiding principles that sit in the **doctrinal core** of a lattice. They are the source of a subject's power, in a sense, and adherence to doctrine is done via playing by the 'rules' that it establishes.

For example, a doctrine of strength demands that followers of it aim to cultivate strength and demonstrate strength. Winning in battles of any and all kinds through all manners and types of strength - physical, metal, emotional - is playing by the rules of the doctrine, and doing so is rewarded by further strength in the form of, typically, a **doctrinal power**. Another quirk of this is that encountering someone who possesses a doctrine antithetical to yours places you in a state of 'doctrinal combat'. By triumphing over rival doctrines, you prove the purity and strength of your own, and by being defeated by rival doctrines, yours is weakened, you are too by extension, and more interestingly, so is that doctrine throughout the entire Switchboard. The doctrine of strength in this hypothetical - but this extends to majorly all doctrines that exist - are utterly reliant on all who follow that doctrine demonstrating its strength whenever they are tested. The interplay of doctrine versus doctrine creates a dense web of interaction where credos are being elevated and relegated constantly in real time.

Obtaining a doctrine is fairly simple, as doctrines evolve and are woven into the Current of the Switchboard through the actions of its denizens. Deliberate actions as simple as outlining some rules to be followed by a group of subjects is enough to create an elementary doctrine. As this doctrine is expanded, and proves its worth in doctrinal engagements and in the feats accomplished by those who adhere to it, the 'strength' of that doctrine grows in the Switchboard, as does the powers granted to those who follow it. 

As such, most doctrines are fairly old, established by old gatherings of Switchboard denizens in the earliest days of the Astrolabe. Indeed, most of the doctrines that contend with each other today descend from those who later go on to found the four progenitor families and various ideological groups that exist in the Switchboard. Each family has a doctrine. The Academy has various doctrines. So do settlements on major regions. And the Conclave of Vahn. And the Mystics, their doctrine being particularly potent and dangerous. Striders as a whole have a doctrine, as do Glassbreakers, Ritualists, Weavers, Sembleworkers, Operators, the Grounded - the Switchboard is rife with them.

And with personal doctrines as well, doctrines held by individuals that are crafted and honed by experiences of their own and clashes with other doctrines. 

'Adhering' to a doctrine can be as simple as joining the foremost practitioners of it, or using the tenets of that doctrine to guide or justify an action. Operators act 'in the name of the Academy' for example, but what is truly meant by that is that the Academy's principles guide their actions, and the Academy's authority justifies them. Anyone who thus 'subjects' themselves to these as well - the principles and authority - could be said to be acting 'in the name of' a given doctrine, and they are able to reap the benefits of adherence, contribute to the proliferation of that doctrine, and also harm the strength of that doctrine when they fail to counter other doctrines in engagements. 

>More on doctrines are to be found in [[The Blank-Slate Mind]].

## Further Notes
	This doc will aim to speak generally on subject matters that are discussed in specifics in the progenitor family documents. As such, development here will be indefinitely paused.