# The Hands as Chalk
The entirety of the Switchboard runs on the dynamics and interplay of information in tangible form, known as 'Chalk'. The Hands as Chalk foundational pillar seeks to describe Chalk and how denizens of the Switchboard interact with it, how it interacts with the wider Switchboard, and the products of the interplay with all three.

## Tangible Information - Chalk
As described under Information Tangibility, information constitutes a tangible component of all things in the Switchboard. *All* things in the Switchboard *are* information; they and their properties are information as well. As such, all things in the Switchboard exist as configurations - patterns - of unordered information. We call this 'Chalk'.

Chalk is information in physical form, taking on the appearance of jagged, translucent yet mildly cloudy crystals, diffracting pure light into rainbow spectra when passing through it. Reduced to powdered form, it appears similar to cloudy, powdered glass. When in use, Chalk typically takes the form of 'ribbons'; gossamer streaks of chalk, moving seemingly weightlessly, suspended by invisible strings. Chalk also comes in 'ray' or 'radiance' form, emitted by [[The Skywards Pursuit#The Grand Stellar Procession |Law Stars]], in the Switchboard Sky. When these rays are slowed or strike an obstacle, they deposit as chalk in dust/powder form.

Chalk as it exists normally is random information. When arranged or 'patterned', it takes the shape of more conventional objects, such as things as people, as well as properties such as color, taste, etc. From the infinite randomness, all things can be sequenced and created, the mechanics of doing so described further on.

### Pattern and 'Ribbon' Duality
Because all things in the Switchboard are made of patterned chalk, it helps to view objects (such as a piece of fruit) as an origami of chalk 'paper'. When folded, it takes the form the name compels us to reasonably expect. However, when unfolded, a formerly three-dimensional object now becomes flat - chalk ribbons. These chalk ribbons still contain the information of the former three-dimensional object, needing only instructions on 'folding' to be supplied to restore them to their original form. This is the Pattern-Ribbon Duality.

A shirt can be reduced to a chalk ribbon containing all the information of that shirt. Same thing for a house plant, or a slice of bread, or a jet engine or skyscraper. Simple things like a pencil, complex constructs such as a silicon board - **all can be reduced to their ribbon form, and interacted with in their ribbon form, which is the state at which most chalk interactions take place - down at the ribbon level**. This allows us to neatly move into how chalk is interacted with. ^c91b12

## The Weave Protocol
Chalk achieves a state of 'stability' in crystalline form, dense amounts of it forming deposits in the Wellsprings. In dust form, chalk traverses the great Sky of the Switchboard, moving between Law Stars and Wellsprings, regions, super-regions, vaults, and regions of curvature and low depth, falling into the Void. Most meaningful interaction between chalk, however, happens in ribbon form, and interaction with ribbon chalk by beings in the Switchboard is made possible through the **Weave Protocol**, a hereditary, innate modification to the Five Straits.

### Information Affinity
Perhaps foremost of the abilities granted by the Weave Protocol is a change to the **potential strait** (elaborated upon further), that allows it to **accumulate chalk** from the local environment. This is made possible by the passive quality of information affinity that is bestowed on all those who posses the Weave Protocol. This ability to accumulate chalk and store it in the body-lattice is necessary for nearly all calcic powers that the Weave Protocol further enables.

Like taking in air to the lungs via breathing, denizens of the Switchboard bearing the Weave Protocol passively take in chalk and store it in the potential strait, where it awaits harnessing by the other straits for various functions. As calcic abilities are used, or under other circumstances, chalk is depleted from the potential strait, and must be replenished.

The rate by which chalk is thus accumulated varies based on a number of factors;
- The '**efficiency**' of the **interface and interpreter straits** (also elaborated upon later). Chalk enters the lattice through the interface strait, and thus is subject to the throughput allowed by it. Additionally, chalk taken in must be analyzed by the interpreter strait to separate pattern and weave from plain chalk, a task that also takes time. The product of both of these is a subjects **chalk throughput**, and they are in turn subject to the Weaver's general, overall calcic proficiency, a product of the logic surrounding their doctrines.
- The **availability** of latent chalk in the vicinity. When more chalk is present, passive accumulation is performed more quickly. In locales like Wellsprings and certain biomes on regions, chalk is plentiful and allows for bountiful passive accumulation. In other environments like the inside of Vaults or the Challenger Dark, the available chalk is severely reduced, the rate of accumulation responding similarly.
- Whether **active draw** is being employed. Those with the Weave Protocol have the ability to actively pull chalk from the environment - much like taking a deep breath - vastly increasing the rate of chalk pulled into the potential straits. When preparing to use a calcic ability, one may choose to suffuse themselves with chalk to balance out the chalk expended when the ability is used, or they may uptake chalk after using a power to rapidly replenish their reserves. This is used usually when perform various calcic actions in quick succession, such as in combat.
- The presence of **interferences**, which are factors that can either **hamper** or **catalyze** chalk uptake. An active ritual, a held Tek or relic, someone *else's* Tek or relic, and environmental effect, natural or artificial, may alter the rate of uptake of chalk.

Accumulating chalk can, however, saturate the lattice beyond its ability to store. This is dangerous, as unharnessed chalk is functionally random information, and this random information can 'spill over' into other straits - particularly the memory strait - and overwrite the useful information there with noise, an occurrence indeed called **Overwrite**. 

Dealing with an abundance of chalk is often done by 'flaring', though this is a problem for Weavers as flaring is a Strider-exclusively ability. Flaring is converting excess chalk to something easily dissipated, such as heat, by subjecting it to highly-efficient equations in the computational strait. Weavers who want to get rid of excess chalk usually expend it by weaving something of high calcic density but considerable instability, allowing it to resolve by collapsing and dissipating chalk into the environment. More skilled Weavers can cause calcic crystal to form in their immediate vicinity, trapping the chalk in physical form.

### The Five-Strait
The next ability granted by the Weave Protocol is 'drawing'. Similar to the Strider Protocol, Information Affinity allows drawing latent chalk to the self, and storing it within the subject's body, turning them into a reservoir of unharnessed potential. Striding is performed by 'flaring' this chalk to produce velocity, but with the Weave Protocol, **Weavers** can instead - using their fingers - 'draw' ribbons of chalk on surfaces.

With this we then move into the Five-Strait system. To meaningfully interact with the wider world of the Switchboard, Weavers must create a series of chalk 'lines', all with a specific purpose. These lines - ribbons - 'communicate' with the lines between them and the 'ribbons' of other objects and phenomena in the outside world.

The first strait created is the ***'potential line'***. This strait is pure, unharnessed chalk, and manifests within Weavers, growing in 'mass' as Weavers accumulate latent chalk passively or actively. It contains - literally - untapped potential, in the form of chalk not assigned to any exact purpose. 

Following it is the ***'interpreter line'***. The purpose of this line, mainly, is to convert some of the esoteric and convoluted bits of information amassed by accumulating chalk into readable form. Chalk that is moved from the potential line just before comes here to be studied. Teks, instructions for rituals, bits and pieces of information that aren't truly random get detected and sorted here, moving to later lines as necessary. 

The ***'memory line'*** stands in the middle of the Five Straits. Weavers being beings of pure chalk lack a centralized memory organ such as a brain. This is elaborated upon more fully in [[The Blank-Slate Mind]]. Summarized, memory in Weavers is the memory line, an immensely dense ribbon of chalk that contains everything a subject knows. Everything. Useful information acquired from the interpreter line comes here to be stored, as well as information created and used in the next line, and *acquired* from the line after *that*. This is also where known Equations are stored, a particularly relevant fact to the final purpose of the Five Strait system.

The ***'computational line'*** is the seat of 'thinking'. Here, chalk is processed and calculated using equations and thinking methodologies to reach an outcome. A subject can have more than one computational line, and each computational line can be seen as a thread of a multicore processor, all able to work independent of the others, while at the same time working on the same task. The processing speed done by the computational lines is dependent on the subject's own mental proficiency, and the ability to form additional computational lines relies on the subject's capacity for parallel processing.

Certain passive computational lines exist that govern more latent processes (bodily and metabolic ones for example) and forming additional, active computational lines can draw too heavily from the 'available pool' of the subject's mental ability. A subject aiming to focus all mental power on a task can quite literally forget to breathe. 

The final line in the Five Straits is the ***'interface line'***. This chalk line functions much like the semi-permeable membrane of a cell, the sensors on a complicated robot, or the input devices on a computer. This line interacts with the ribbons of the outside chalk world and wider Switchboard, taking in information, and outputting change.

### How the Five-Strait Works
Information pulled in from the interface line is sent to the potential line, this being the act of accumulating chalk. If this information isn't pure randomness, that is deduced by the interpreter line, with purely random chalk staying back in the potential line. Non-random chalk - chalk with 'pattern' - is sent to the memory line for storage and computational lines for processing where necessary. Any change made is imparted upon the outside world using the interface line once again.

But the true purpose of the Weave Protocol is the usage of Equations. A Switchboard Equation is - most simply put - a set of instructions for weaving ribbons of chalk, to form patterns. As mentioned above, these equations (or rather knowledge of them) are kept in the Memory Line, and computation using them is done in the Computational Line. The results of these calculations are output by the Interface Line. This is the means by which Weaver's interact deeply with the Switchboard.

#### Utilization of the Five-Strait
A Weaver can produce fire from wood by drawing five concentric Chalk circles around it; the potential, interpreter, memory, computational and interface. The interface line observes the wood, sending a breakdown of information the Weaver feels will be necessary for his next steps. The computational line takes numbers from the interpreter and a equation from the memory, specifically one that finds how many joules of energy must be supplied to the wood to produce a certain change in temperature. This number is acquired and sent to the interface line, which draws the energy by folding latent chalk, and supplies it to the wood, inducing heat, and creating fire.

Taken further, a Weaver can create a simple camera by drawing a series of concentric circles around the rim of a cup and pointing it at something to be photographed. The interface line is instructed to begin measuring the hexadecimal color values of everything in an arc in front of it, sending these values to a series of computational lines, that stitch the hexadecimal values one after the other in small squares, creating pixels. Adjustments can be made by other computational lines, such as formula that produces a greyscale filter. The resulting series of pixels is sent to the memory line to be stored. It can be output by drawing all five lines in a rectangle, the image being projected in the space created.

### Weave Mechanics
Interacting with chalk occasionally demands Weavers to utilize the power to Weave in more intricate ways. These are the 'Weave Mechanics'.

The most common Weave Mechanic learned by Weavers is **Point Propagation**. Typically, chalk straits are drawn by physical movement of fingers or a hand across a surface, which necessarily requires that the spaces being interacted with are reachable by hands. With Point Propagation, A Weaver can place a finger, multiple fingers or a full hand on a surface, and send out streams of chalk in any direction they choose, allowing reaching locations hands cannot; inside minuscule environments such as machine circuitry, at immense heights, or in conceptual spaces such as minds.

**Ritual Geometry** is a concept that dictates the way certain equations require a subject of that equation to be 'bound' in chalk straits for that equation to function. For example, to start a fire using the Five Straits, you may have to draw a singular, two dimensional circle around the source of fuel. To lockpick a safe using chalk, however, you may have to draw lines all over the the safe that intersect, 'wrapping' it. The Ritual Geometry used is reliant on the parameters of the equation. Encasements of chalk lines are called 'Chalk Boundaries' ^a4757c

Necessarily, some equations may mandate chalk wrapping around the subject, but also that those lines dynamically shift as the equation works upon the subject. In the case of the safe for example, the lines may need to shift into new configurations as the dial is turned one way or the other. Propagating new lines and withdrawing old ones may not allow the equation to work as intended.

The solution to this is **Chalk Within Chalk**. When Five-Strait chalk lines are propagated parallel to each other, additional chalk lines are deployed, perpendicular to the initial. It helps to imagine it as scale of sheet music. These perpendicular 'brace' chalk lines 'hold' the parallel Five-Strait lines, and interface with the Computational Lines. When necessary, the 'brace' lines receive instruction from the Computational Line to move the entire construct of chalk straits, done as the equation demands. 

Control of the CWC brace lines is **Linear Dynamism**, the action of feeding the CWC brace lines with instructions on when a Weaver needs the strait lines to assemble, disassemble and reassemble in intricate shapes, move in certain paths and patterns, all to facilitate fulfillment of the equations being used, or the will of the Weaver. This is particularly relevant when we get to actual Rituals used by Weavers. Linear Dynamism also allows CWC lines to detach the straits from surfaces themselves, granting the Weaver the power to draw and form chalk boundaries in air.

### Weavesight
Tapping into the Weave Protocol grants weavers a litany of powers in the form of manipulating chalk ribbon and using the Five Straits. A somewhat more subtle power they are provided with however, is a special manner of 'sight' that is tuned specifically for use in the Switchboard and the calcic world. This is the '**Weavesight**', and with it, Weavers can obtain information around the wider calcic world through 'casting their perception'.

**Mechanism**
The Weavesight functions almost in opposition to the power to 'draw' chalk to oneself granted by Strider's and Weaver's innate information affinity. In the Weavesight, a subject projects outwards 'rays' of chalk that strike all objects or patterns in their vicinity. By observing the 'outline' formed by these rays of chalk being intercepted by the patterns they strike, the subject obtains firstly a 'wireframe' construction of their immediate environment. This power is reliant on the Five Straits, as chalk that is fed back to the subject as the rays return from where they strike enter the potential line, and are passed to the interpreter line for useful information gleaned to be extracted and passed to the memory line.

>As a note, despite being a manner of 'sight', Weavesight is not reliant on the physical eyes of the subject, and instead, calcic perception-rays can be fired from any part of the body. This is often employed when assessing a subject held in the hands for example.

Naturally, Weavers who grow more proficient in using the Weavesight are able to employ perception-rays that penetrate deep into struck targets, allowing the subject to glean incremental amounts of useful information the deeper the rays penetrate. Deeper Weavesight allows for ascertaining the nature of the weaves within a pattern, the nature of the equation that might have been used to fold it, how easy or difficult it would be to unfold and extract weave from. Even more information can be gleaned by subjects who know how to 'focus' their Weavesight, such as narrowing down a large sphere of observation into a singular, laser-like cone of deeply penetrating chalk rays. Focused Weavesight like this, however, is tantamount to blasting a subject with chalk, and occasionally this may not be something the caster may desire.

Functionally, it's a 'scanner' power that is essential for those traversing the Switchboard. It possesses additional utility in combat, in allowing detection of weak points or assessing threats, and utility in calcic casting too in observation of enemy casts as well as your own. Cultivating strong Weavesight is mandatory for Weavers who wish to last long in the Switchboard.

>It is common practice for chromegrafted subjects to have their memory lines interface with their Slates, so that information gleaned from Weavesight is passed instantly to their mobile computers and stored into, or cross-referenced against available databases, allowing gleaning even more information, and indexing new discoveries for the usage of others. 

Because Weavesight is a calcic ability, it is subject to rules that other calcic abilities are subject too as well. It expends chalk in its casting, and if chalk casting is being suppressed, Weavesight will feed the user inaccurate data or fail altogether. Less developed forms of Weavesight can also be tricked, through clever usage of weaves meant to disguise the true nature of something. It is also possible to detect when a Strider or Weaver is in the vicinity as Weavesight results in passive emittance of chalk by subjects using it. This can be used to rig traps for example, designed to go off only when Striders or Weavers are present. Particularly skilled and malicious actors are able to encoded weave in a subject that when analyzed by the Weavesight and passed to the interpreter lines, can result in malicious weave spontaneously forming in the interpreter line, and harming the caster of the sight. This is particularly useful for creating environments where Weavesight usage is curtailed.

## Latent Chalk
Both the Strider Protocol and the Weave Protocol function by expending chalk to perform actions, chalk that is accumulated actively or passively via information affinity. Chalk exists in 'clouds' of it in dust form in the general environment, and though the concentration can be low, it is present. This is 'Latent Chalk'. Weavers draw from it extensively when using their powers.

	This section delves into world mechanics heavily reliant on concepts outlined in The Skywards Pursuit.

Latent Chalk tends to accumulate in already fairly information-dense regions, drawn towards them like water moving from a high point to a lower one. Latent Chalk often accumulates into crystalline form, become crystal chalk, depositing itself and often growing to colossal proportions. We see this often in the [[The Skywards Pursuit#The Wellsprings |Wellsprings]], regions of immense information density fed directly by Law Stars. 

### Spontaneous Equations
Equations - despite being instructions for folding chalk - are chalk themselves. Occasionally and by pure chance, Latent Chalk arranges itself in just the right ways for an equation to begin to form. Chalk equations are fairly self-correcting, and these Spontaneous Equations grow in complexity and viability over the course of many iterations, eventually becoming an equation capable of producing major observable outcomes.

A major example of this are Regional Equations. Most Regional Equations that dictate the nature of the Switchboard's regions arise naturally in the Wellsprings, growing, evolving and improving over time, until reaching a state at which they begin to fold chalk to produce proto-planetary structures and qualities; quantities of dirt and rock to form landmass, water for oceans, an atmosphere and - most importantly - a gravitational field. At this point the equation and proto-region is ejected into the wider Switchboard. ^b5a598

Despite the separation of distance, regional equations contain a 'clause' within their makeup that links them to the Wellspring that seeds them. They are linked by supporting 'chains', much like the load-bearing steel cord on a suspension bridge, and these chains link the region, the Wellspring that birthed it, and other regions and structures in the vicinity in three dimensional space, allowing all to hinge and provide support to each other. These chains collectively form the '*anchorage superstructures*'. Loss of these support structures results in the regional equation coming undone, leading to regional collapse.  ^10330c

### The Micro-Spontaneous
Curiously, certain entities in the Switchboard may induce the creation of [[On Birthing and Being#Emergent Minds|Emergent Minds]], elementary calcic intelligences that arise through the folding of chalk under rigorous self-correction mechanism and selection. They cannot live very long without vessels however. Coincidentally, what often causes these Emergent Minds to emerge is the presence of objects and oddities with specific kinds of very dense pattern, the kind that forms primarily in objects that are very old and/or have seen use in the hands of Striders and Weavers. These objects are usually denoted as [[On Weave and Warfare#The Relics of New|Relics]]. Emergent intelligences that arise around them usually emerge with singular prime directive, a doctrine; protect what it is that brought them to be. This is accomplished by the construction of a Vault, which serves as both protection for what caused the intelligence to arise, as well as a body for the intelligence itself. Often, the first few 'building blocks' of the Vault spontaneously evolve as well, granting the emerging intelligence a baseplate upon which to build. This is further elaborated upon in [[The Skywards Pursuit]]. ^33b0d3

Happening on a much smaller scale, a spontaneous equation can evolve using some object or concept as a 'seed', which dictates the outcome. Around objects, the results are Relics, items granted additional power from equations encased within them. Objects already containing considerable amounts of information act as sinks, more information pooling into them, subsequently resulting in spontaneous equations. This is further elaborated upon in [[On Weave and Warfare#The Relics of New|relics]].  ^abc506

Teks are another product of the micro-spontaneous equations. These are powerful equations that grant Weavers powers, taking the form of chalk ribbon, often encased in chalk crystal, or in transit across the Switchboard on chalk currents. Finding one of such Teks is no mean feat. A vast majority of Teks wielded by Weavers are seeded by scraps of patterned chalk moving across the Switchboard Sky; ideas from Weavers themselves, bits from other concepts lost in the Switchboard, etc. 

## Hyperweave
> We can't have lasers or lightning in the Switchboard so this is the next best thing.

By most metrics, chalk can be viewed as somewhat inert. Chalk in latent dust form, solid crystalline form, activated ribbon form, bound pattern form and stable weave form all share a somewhat common thread between them; they are stable forms of chalk that outside of most calcic interference, will remain in their current states. There is a final form of chalk however, that is defined by its instability. This is chalk in the 'hyperwoven' state, more commonly referred to as **hyperweave**.

### Nature & Formation
Hyperweave is most commonly is densely - but haphazardly - packed chalk. One can imagine trying to pack a box of identical springs into a space smaller than what would be adequate. Done properly, it is possible to form arrays of springs that push on all sides of the box equally, resulting in a fair amount of pressure on all sides, but otherwise a stable structure. Hyperweave would be simply tossing all the springs in the bag and then trying to compress it, pulling ever harder on the cord on the lip to shrink the available spence. Eventually, the energy must go somewhere, and it can result in the entire structure collapsing.

When chalk does this, it follows a sort of 'line of best fit' through a space, which would result in a perfect line or beam of pure chalk. However, it is additionally skewed by an amount of randomness that stems from the conditions of its release and the nature of the medium it passes through, which can result in these stable beams behaving more like crackling bolts, cracking and splitting through the air. Their destination is usually the most chalk-dense weave in the environment - prioritizing complexity of weft over quantity of chalk used to make it - which in most cases results in released bolts of hyperweave targeting kin, especially Striders. 

Forming hyperweave then is fairly easy, as a chalkweaver merely needs to be able to pack and restrain a large amount of chalk into a very tiny space, before providing it a crack in the unstable structure through which it can escape. Released hyperweave travels incredibly fast too, moving at speeds equivalent to the upper-middle launch velocities of skilled Striders. In a sense, forming hyperweave is even easier than doing proper chalkweaving, as hyperweave can indeed be viewed simply as poorly-woven chalk.

Hyperweave is an unstable state of chalk, however, and if projected over long distances, it gradually loses the little integrity it still has, dissipating into the local environment as latent chalk.

### Utilization
It is possible to create calcic apertures through which to fire hyperweave, compelling it to travel in certain manners, most commonly the perfect beam shape that comes with hyperweave that is released with reduced interference. Considering hyperweave is made of very, very large amounts of chalk, hyperweave emitters and receivers can be used to transmit colossal amounts of it across long distances. This sees a number of industrial applications, such as moving calcic power between sections of a large structure or bits of a minuscule device.

However, hyperweave sees plenty of use in offensive or weapons applications, either as a power source, or a weapon itself.

### Effects
Being hit by hyperweave has been described as - and is particularly similar to - being hit by the full calcic radiance of a Law Star. Though less powerful, it rips and cascades through the lattice of a target, inflicting considerable unravelling, and saturating a target with unharnessed, wild chalk. It takes on inductive properties and can ricochet throughout the lattice, and even strike a target, reform, and ricochet to another target, chaining between them and doing substantial, though diminishing damage. 

### Chalkweaver Combat
Hyperweave saw inevitable adoption in combat due to the considerable damage it does to all that it strikes, as well as its chaining, unravelling and inductive properties. How each individual subject used hyperweave - harnessing its raw damage potential, suppressing unravelling power, or spreading inductive power - is up to them. But those who can harness hyperweave cultivate considerable notoriety, as hyperweave in use is a memorable, visual spectacle, one to wow allies, foes and onlookers alike. 

## Teks
> It was coming sooner rather than later anyway.

The Weave Protocol grants its bearers command over chalk and all things calcic. The Switchboard's Chalkweavers are able to interface directly with its underlying mechanics, interacting with phenomena 'at the ribbon level' as the lowest level at which calcic interaction happens is described. To make ribbon chalk into anything useful, **folding** and **weaving** it into patterns and weaves is necessary, performed through physical  with the hands, devices designed to work with chalk, or rituals that take in chalk and components to fold complex patterns of chalk into being.

But there are levels of weave complexity that are nigh impossible to achieve through other means. Examples are the various calcic machinations that are performed by the Astrolabe, or the workings of a region's calcic interior. While the effects of these machinations can be seen, what produces these effects rarely can - and most of, all can rarely ever be grasped. This is the domain of **equations**; chalk that has grown so proficient at folding chalk through their irreducible complexity that the results of its machinations appears to defy what is understood about chalk and the Weave Protocol. The Strider and Weave Protocols themselves are good examples of this. 

### The Nature of Teks
Teks being chalk equations and thus chalk makes them subject to the familiar rules that govern the functioning of chalk itself. Particularly, this alludes to how Teks are formed. Equations in the Switchboard cannot be created by its denizens, and thus any equation that exists in the Switchboard is a result of spontaneous evolution, followed by a selection process as equations are fairly self-correcting. What causes these equations to spawn has been studied, and the prevalent theories are discussed further down, though summarized; Teks are seemingly a measure put in place by the Astrolabe to mitigate the necessity of large-scale resolutions to its calculus. 

When Teks fully 'mature', they take the most unfortunate form of fairly ordinary-looking weave, which is then swept up into the various calcic transport phenomena in the Switchboard; caught in a flux storm and sent to the Challenger Dark to be caught in the Stardrip Cycle, caught in the calcic draw of a Vault beginning a mighty calculation, blasted away on stellar winds where they are caught and trapped in Wellsprings, only to be discovered often by mining operations or terribly lucky Weavers. The actual finding of Teks is discussed further down.

Teks being weave can only function for a Strider or Weaver when integrated with a local lattice, that primarily being the lattice of the subject who aims to use the Tek. Simply using the information affinity 'draw' is enough to integrate a Tek into the lattice of one's body, the interpreter line doing the function of parsing the chalk-weave into an equation. Teks function using the **Five Straits**; they are stored - almost like programs - in the memory line, and occupy a fair bit of space too, so much that most can never wield more than one Tek at a time without adverse consequences. Teks being equations perform their calculations in the computational line, exchanging information with the interpreter while drawing on chalk kept in the potential line and outputting the results of their calculations through the interface line. This particular quality *does* make Teks somewhat vulnerable to certain forms of attack in the Switchboard, but mainly it means that any *thing* with the Five Straits are able to wield Teks, including those who don't even have the Weave Protocol.

So what prompts Teks to form? Seemingly, they emerge from thin air, seeded by apparently nothing, before growing and maturing to a form where they can conveniently fold chalk in a manner that escapes even the most skilled of Weavers. This is not entirely the case. Teks are equations in the literal sense, in that they take in chalk and variables and output folded chalk and answers, with the net change in the Switchboard remaining zero; the metaphorical left hand side equals the equally metaphorical right. Perhaps as a response to the catastrophic resolutions in its past, the Astrolabe adopted new methodologies of calculating the Switchboard; large-scale deployment of chalk capable of doing calculations on regions in space, and then passing the resultant of those calculations to the Astrolabe, instead of the Astrolabe having to draw chalk from all of the Switchboard every time it needs to perform a particularly complex calculation.

What do Teks 'calculating' look like then? Imagine travelling across a frozen tundra, sheets of ice as far as the eyes can see. Blizzards strike without warning, valleys dip below eyelevel and promise colder temperatures, while high peaks threatening heavy exposure. Nights bring truly nail-biting cold, and all but the absolute strongest are felled. And then, without explanation, in your travels you come across a patch of verdantly green grass. Continuing forward you find larger and larger patches, taller grass, now flowers and even bushes, before you find a small tree, growing pleasantly in the inexplicably warm air. Beyond it, a pool of sparkling warm water, summertime fields all around it.

In most cases, this would simply be a fluke with the region's equation, or a psychitect inserting a jarring clause in the equation stack, laughing to themselves at the face they imagine whoever stumbles upon it to have. But in some cases, for reasons that escape even those who do nothing other than study it, the Astrolabe's calculus may require there to be a hot spring in the middle of ice-scorched lands, and the task of realizing such a thing is offloaded to a Tek, that will be present in the local lattice of that environment. 

This, however, is a simple Tek, and an obvious one more so.

Returning to the tundra example, suppose you set up a base camp to begin multi-subject - meteorological, geological, population, etc. - study of this region over a period of time, say, a season or 144 days. In this time you record every single thing that happened; light snowfall, heavy snowfall, outright blizzards, the movement of icebergs off the coast large and small, the migrations of animals, type, number and where to, the rise and fall of celestial bodies, the path of constellations, all of these things you recorded and then charted out at the end of your session. You then run this data through a Slate and ask for what conclusions it makes.

You might observe from the Slate's output certain... oddities. Storms hit at dates with similar intervals between them, and the amount of snowfall is always a multiple of five. Polar animals migrate east and do so along a perfect diagonal, even through treacherous terrain. Auroras hit at the start of every week and last for the same amount of time. Snowdrifts grow and shrink by amounts sharing common denominators. It is simply all too 'calculated' - as it were - to be mere coincidence, and thus the simple explanation is that it is not, and rather is the result of a Tek at work on the local lattice, acting to compute the Astrolabe's endless calculus, the results of which passively shape reality around it. 

### Finding Teks
It is with that final note given that we may delve into how someone finds a Tek. Summarized, it is a matter of searching for 'negentropy' or the absence of chaos. Teks for the most part bring order to an environment, and thus to find them one must search the fairly chaotic calcic reality for small pockets of inexplicable, apparent intentionality. This is no mean feat, adjusted for all the contexts in which Teks can be found and the subtle ways one might manifest. It can be likened to trawling through a sequence of infinite random numbers, aiming to find the gravitational constant or Avogadro's number; a truly herculean task that means without certain tools, tricks, experience and plain dumb luck - and even with those things - many will go Tek-less, even considerably powerful Weavers.

Knowing the nature of Teks can allow for narrowing down where one might spawn. As Teks tend to form where there is an abundance of chalk, searching wellsprings and large regions - particularly those fairly near to a star - is often the first idea many Tek hunters have. Teks always become more prevalent the farther one is from the Astrolabe, as the Astrolabe induces more of it them to spawn to aid in computing the farthest reaches of the Switchboard. Regions of high calcic throughput such as Anarhiza nexuses, Vaults, ongoing structural casts, the paths of migrating stars and frequently travelled routes through the Dancirah are also good places to search. The insides of Vaults often contain Teks too, often multiple even, as Interdiction Minds have a habit of procuring ones they come across to aid in the Vault's calculation, as well as Vaults themselves being conducive environments for Teks to spawn. Teks can be acquired through the Void as well; Depthstriders being able to be Given or Take Teks from the Void, though they aren't particularly able to use them, and Teks frequently come to the surface, just above the Challenger Horizon, usually when they reach the end of the Stardrip Cycle or during particularly terrible flux storms.

When near a Tek, the mere weavesight of a Chalkweaver is often enough to analyze a local lattice and find the brains of the operation. Retrieving the Tek is equally simple; a matter of severing the boundary where order and chaos meet, easily deduced - again - by weavesight. 

Knowing what a Teks are for does prompt the question of whether it is safe to remove them from where they are in active use in the Astrolabe, and the general consensus by astrolabic scholars is that yes, unplugging a very important piece of a very large network is arguably a poor idea. 

That being said, the Astrolabe has been observed to be somewhat plastic, able to function even nominally with this kind of damage sustained, even over multiple occasions and in different contexts along an extended period of time. Occasionally, the computational load is simply offloaded to other Teks or similar nearby, the burden of the void created by one loss shouldered by a vast net of many others, each that had enough 'slack' to begin with in anticipation of such a thing. Under ripe conditions, the Astrolabe may simply respawn that exact Tek there again, especially if the Tek when harnessed by subjects in the Switchboard turns out to be fairly elementary in function; and this respawning of Teks has created almost a body of knowledge and even an industry around Tek 'farming', with the aim to outfit large swathes of persons (such as an army) with simple Teks as even they are better than nothing.

### Wielding Teks
Upon acquiring a Tek, it must be integrated with the local lattice, done primarily though a Chalkweaver's innate ability to draw and store chalk from the local lattice in their potential line, the line in the Five Straits that stores all the chalk available for a subject to use. The Tek is passed to the interpreter line which swiftly evaluates what it is, and goes about making the changes to the subject's local lattice that are necessary to allow the Tek function. The bulk of the Tek's information mass is passed to the memory line, and operating ledgers are opened on the computational line. Gateways to the wider Switchboard are established in the interface line as well. Some Teks prompt physical, anatomical changes on their subjects, which will form as necessary. 

Once a Tek is fully integrated, how it is wielded comes down to the individual nature of each Tek. As Teks are immensely varied, there is no universal method of wielding Teks.

> A not for the future; a chromegraft known as a 'Tek-loader', able to allow loading additional Teks and wielding them using a chromegraft interface.

Commenting further of the 'soft' limitation of only being able to wield one Tek, while a subject could wield multiple Teks if they so choose, each Tek takes a huge swathe of the real estate available on the Five Strait's memory line. While some may have larger 'memory banks', as it were, allowing loading of additional Teks, most do not, and loading a Tek beyond the first may forcefully overwrite existing information on memory sectors. A subject could forget what they had for breakfast, their own name, or everything they've ever known, becoming merely a blank slate weapons platform.

> Interesting prospect here. 

### Classifying Teks
There was once an effort to classify and compartmentalize Teks, but it has been deprecated. When considering the sheer volume of what Teks could enable one to do - though within calcic constraints - it swiftly becomes apparent there is no real way to classify them in a manner that assigns every Tek neatly to a box of its 'kind'.

> That being said, I will still work towards trying to find a means to classify them, if for no other reason that expediting the task of coming up with new ones as necessary. 

### Teks and the Switchboard
A rather interesting ramification of most denizens of the Switchboard only being able to wield a singular Tek at a time, coupled with the fact Teks are immensely varied and unique from one another, is that certain Teks become 'assigned' to certain persons - a part of their identity, as it were - especially in the case of Striders. 

Striders known for using certain Teks accumulate renown or notoriety, the implications of which is elaborated upon in the discussion of [[The Doctrine of Passing#On Names and Tales|Yarns]]. Striders with particularly powerful and well-known Teks may knowingly or unknowingly cultivate groups of other Striders that follow them, and by virtue of Strider Evolution, may develop weaker versions of the Tek they posses. It leads to the formation of 'cults' of Striders, all using powers similar to that of their leader's.

## On the Astrolabe and Protocols
> A section for the Astrolabe. Formerly, we had a number of top-level core mechanics docs that this section would have been better suited for, but they were lost in the many revision and consolidation cycles. For now, it shall rest here.

In the beginning was the Switchboard and the Astrolabe kept its time. At the beginning was the Astrolabe. Flowing from the Astrolabe is all things. Much has been said on the Astrolabe elsewhere, which is why here I will focus on some of the Astrolabe's core operating mechanics, that being the **Reflexive**.

The Reflexive is a time-bound subroutine that the Astrolabe triggers to evaluate itself. The Astrolabe has many subroutines that descend from its main routine, that being the perpetuation of the Switchboard. The Reflexive, however, is a means of perpetuating the Astrolabe, and the results of the Reflexive is often what triggers the various routine of the **Resolver**, that which triggers the Astrolabe to initiate the various steps required to perform a resolution.

One of the more subtle things the Reflexive does, is feed additional data to the Resolver that is necessary for the Resolver to make come to pass to ensure the continued operation of the Astrolabe. One of these in particular, is the creation of **Protocols**. Protocols are at their core, dictate the means of doing a thing. Occasionally, the Astrolabe's resolution demands that something be doable, and thus it creates a protocol to make it so. Protocols are thus both the means and the end. Protocols may not necessarily be used by the Astrolabe itself, however. The Reflexive is a protocol, but most other protocols exist in the Switchboard as actions that can be taken or powers wielded by its denizens.

On this final note, occasionally, something that already exists can be elevated to a protocol level. Whereas it was only backed by the truth and nature of what it was, it now is backed by the mechanisms of the Astrolabe. It is made transcendent, and allowed to operate on higher mechanical spectra.

### Protocol Master List
The list of currently existing protocols in the canon.

1. Reflection Protocol
2. Strider Protocol
3. Weave Protocol
4. Drift Protocol
5. Flash Protocol
6. Praxis Protocol
7. Breach Protocol