# Cross-Danciran Arcology Economies and Logistics
### Or, Purposed Arcologies and Production Routes

Reading through [[The Fel-Arcad]], I was pretty impressed with everything, however, I had the thought that the idea of individual arcologies seemed rather... static. Each was written to be its own self-contained civilization, which, despite the fact this does work for the Fel-Arcad, the mentioning of Chalk mining as well as the mention of the mentioned "economic role" of arcologies (thought not elaborated upon) opens up the idea of arcologies as interlinked and serving the wider Fel-Arcad civilization.

> By establishing colossal mining encampments on Wellsprings and commanding massive fleets of cargo-hauling spacefaring vessels, massive crystalline deposits are cut from Wellsprings and supplied to arcologies as requested, delivered by the metric ton. This supply of chalk serves to upkeep the arcologies, maintaining the Fel-Arcad's high standard of living, as well as allow them to play their own economic role.

I'll admit that I don't yet have the best understanding of the mechanics of Samsara yet - on top of having a questionable memory - and a lot of the things I write are made with real-world society as a base, but I will try to outline at least a basic yet specific framework for how arcologies might trade between themselves and interact, forming both a coherent link between all arcologies as a wider civilization as well as something of a narrative tool for making different arcologies a varied setting.

## Economy Types
### 1. Extraction
> Based entirely on a conversation I remember having where giant lasers would be used to transport energy, which is one of the coolest things I've ever heard.

Extraction arcologies could be defined as temporary, but due to the time it takes to disassemble a whole planet, last much longer than other temporary structures that might be built by the Fel-Arcad. These are typically the largest out of all the arcologies due to the bulky size needed to house and transfer raw resources, and are more often than not minimally lived in compared to other arcologies, considering its semi-temporary nature and its general undesirability as a civilian location. Colossal rays of pure chalk radiate skyward at all times for large-scale energy transfer, and this light show combined with the colossal size of an extraction arcology make them quite the sight to behold.

### 2. Refinery
Refinery economies are the first and most basic step in the Fel supply chain when it comes to creating materials from raw information. The constant shipments of raw materials and energy transfer beams arriving from Extraction arcologies mean that the economic output of Refinery arcologies are, more often than not, fully dependent on whatever Extraction arcology is located nearby to supply them. The most desirable output from Refinery arcologies comes in the form of raw building materials, whether they be shipments of replichrome in bulk used for construction or non-replichrome materials which are used for construction that doesn't bring replichrome into the mix. On top of this, Refinery arcologies possess the processes needed to turn raw chalk into a usable fuel source for things like power generation or vehicles. 

### 3. Industrial
Industrial economies are the backbone of the Fel-Arcad's complex material manufacturing. Through complex patterning of chalk, this type of arcology is able to, through mostly automated production, see output in the form of basic machines, power generators and power storage cells for machines, as well as civilian technology and appliances. Industrial arcologies are also the main suppliers of the machines needed for the operations of Extraction arcologies, that being their large-scale planetary mining efforts. The average industrial arcology sits second to Extraction arcologies in size due to the space needed to accommodate for its factories and workers' living space.

### 4. High-Tech
High-Tech arcologies are the site of creation for some of the most advanced Fel technologies in the Switchboard. Being built and specialized for production of transportation, medical, and information transfer and storage tech, as well as being the site of the majority of the Fel-Arcad's infamous high-quality Slate production. These arcologies have a large demand for materials from Industrial arcologies, and provide the needed technologies for Industrial, Refinery, and Extraction arcologies to perform their duties, giving rise to an essential partnership between Extraction, Refinery, Industrial, and High-Tech arcologies that fuel themselves as well as any other type. With highly varied applications in all of Fel society, from household items that skew toward the more advanced side, to trade and transport vehicles for almost any application, High-Tech arcologies and the goods they produce are typically of great value to anyone who might require something from one.

### 5. Agriculture
Almost every arcology comes with built-in agricultural production - enough to sustain itself without any imports in the case that trade to said arcology might take a toll. However, these agricultural sections serve, for the most part, as food growth that is merely essential to Fel society. Agricultural arcologies, on the other hand, on top of producing enough food for their residents, produce a large and varying surplus of crops and foods, and the imports of agricultural arcologies are often valued in that they can bring a varied diet to the plates of any Fel child. Livestock, though less common than crops, is present here, and different foods and textiles are sourced from them, however, any slaughtering and butchering of these animals is a very rare sight, with most livestock output being animal products rather than meat. (I will admit, I am not at all clear on the types of crops grown in the Switchboard, whether they be corn and wheat or something else entirely.)

### 6. Military
The Fel-Arcad, being a typically peaceful people, are not ones for extreme military strength - whether in domestic in foreign settings. However, in the cases when they are needed, mostly in the form of Sekators, Fel civilians typically prefer to keep some distance between themselves and military operations. Military arcologies, though on the smaller side of a fully completed arcology, offer the perfect training grounds as well as proper storage for military gear while maintaining a comfortable divide between the life of the average Fel-Arcad citizen and the noisy and sometimes unpleasant operations of a typical military base. These arcologies will source materials from both Industrial and High-Tech arcologies, as well as providing both weaponry and well-trained security forces to any arcology that might need it.

### 7. Colony
These proto-arcologies typically take the form of unfinished and temporary structures as assigned Soleri make efforts toward establishing and constructing something greater. These types of arcologies are typically short-lived as, once grown, they will assimilate into one of the preceding categories. These colonies typically show their value as an investment to their neighbors, and accept almost any sort of useful material that might be offered, whether that be raw chalk, high-tech machines, or lampposts.

### A Brief Summary of Supply Chains
Materials moving between arcologies follow a typical path as raw chalk is refined into more useful materials. The first part of a typical chain starts in Extraction arcologies, where raw chalk is stored in large amounts and then sent to other arcologies. At Refinery arcologies this raw chalk is taken and refined into basic materials, which are then taken to Industrial arcologies to provide machinery for High Tech and Agricultural economies. High Tech creates technology and medicines for all other economies, and Agriculture produces food for all arcologies.

