# The Subject of Red
A document for the discussion of more mature matures with regards to the world of Samsara. Originally titled after the 'Red Pleasures of Leilani', the Skydancer of victory and the merriment it brings, this document handles subject matters that would fit under the umbrella of - in some senses - vices; sex and the having of it, gambling, drugs and alcohol, and more.

## Disclaimer
It is important to view the writ of this document through the lens of its reality as a work of fiction. Depiction is not endorsement, and the reality of a fictional world is not necessarily a reflection of the reality of its creator. In all things, exercise maturity in distinguishing fiction from reality and work from creator.

## Temporary Excerpt
> The following section is an excerpt from Heading #06 'Individuals and Families' from the document on the Sil'khan. While that document is heavily in-development and thus unavailable for viewing, this particular section is important for grasping a lot of the Silk's own sexual dynamics.

#### Un-Parentage
The Sil'khan have an unorthodox approach to rearing children, in that they are not really 'reared' at all. It stems from an ontological flaw that permeates their very making; the fact that in their fabrication of the lattice crucibles of the Fel-Arcad, they obtained just about everything from their parent Danseers... except for a concept of sexuality.

The ramifications of this have been incredibly far-reaching, but this snap-thought seeds the idea of Sil'khan parenting - or the lack thereof. Perhaps the largest ramification of their un-sexuality is that they rather simply do not have traditional intercourse, and as such are far more commonly practitioners of the ritual of conjugation outlined in [[Birthing and Being]]. The creation of offspring conjugate bypasses the need for all the deeply unfamiliar and interpersonal bodily gymnastics that must be performed otherwise.

However, they differ from the Fel-Arcad in one key manner; in that there is very little by way of taking care of the actual children involved - or even backpedaling a bit more, nearly no simultaneous involvement of the parents in the actual ritual of conjugation. When being incubated in the lattice vats, the Fel-Arcad did indeed outfit their lattices with the faculties and some proto form of desire to reproduce, but it was incomplete, and it resulted in the Sil'khan occasionally being compelled to release the donor weave necessary for forming a conjugate, but not necessarily the compulsion to find anyone to do it *with*.

Coupled with the fact the Sil'khan are a very nomadic peoples, it is often the case that the Sil'khan simply litter the stars with their conjugate material, and Sil'khan children arise from another Sil'khan finding an incomplete conjugate, and donating their own material to it, beginning the incubation process tat eventually results in a descendant. Left untouched for long enough, in rare cases an incomplete conjugate made from only one sample of donor backbone can amass enough material from the chalk of the environment and the Current to begin developing into a descendant on its own, with only one parent. It will not, however, be a clone, as the parent only gives a fraction of the material necessary, and the rest is accumulated from the stuff of the Switchboard.

This practice of Sil'khan completing the conjugates of their brethren, often across immense temporal differentials, became so widespread a phenomenon that it became a cultural aspect to them, and many Sil'khan made it a deliberate practice to seed descendants in locales of the Switchboard in hope that one like them comes along to complete the fraction into a whole. In a sense, like some animals, they lay eggs almost, and wait for another party to fertilize them.

Their strangeness of unparenting continues in that Sil'khan children are thus often born alone, helpless, with memories and powers they don't understand, and in hostile environments - particularly due to the fact many Sil'khan choose to seed conjugates in chalk deserts, as a result of their being sacred to them. While some parties do leave supplies and guidance for their conjugate when it arises at last, many leave nothing, and in doing so pose a challenge to their unseen descendant; re-enact the rise of the Third Kin as they once did all those processions ago on the Astrolabic spheres. Rise from the desert, subjugate it and from it, obtain sustenance, and then develop one's self and powers well enough to awaken the wings of the Strider Protocol within them, and take flight to seize their inheritance; the entirety of the Dancirah.

It goes without saying that many do not survive this, and as a result, Sil'khan infant mortality is the highest of all the great families in the Dancirah. Those that do so, however, prove their belonging to the class of god-children, and are often possessed of immense capability born from what is effectively the genetic lottery. Being born within - and surviving - the chalk desert is for many Sil'khan the marker of truly being kin, and some do not accept Sil'khan who did not go through this forging process, being born instead to parents who then raised them together.

It is a something of a macabre sight for many a traveler in the Switchboard to come across more hostile biomes and find makeshift shelters, with a dead Sil'khan often somewhere within a radius of them, having succumbed to some factor or facet of the Dancirah that they hardly could've known to expect, and having lived barely longer than a few days or weeks. So disturbing is the sight, in fact, that some have made it a mission of theirs to rescue Sil'khan conjugates and newly-born descendants and give them more amiable upbringings, while others have made it their mission to condemn this practice. This condemnation worries them little, however; as nigh god-children, they are predisposed towards ignoring the griefs of others - and as a people with little concept of sexuality and parentage, they are fairly hard to convince of why their youngest, weakest iterations of themselves need to be raised in more tender manners.

## On Sexuality
Writ on the culture surrounding sex ands5exuality in the Switchboard, as well as tangentially related subject matters.

### Perceptions of the Conjugation
> [[Birthing and Being]] is recommended reading before this section.

The Conjugation wasn't initially known to the Third Kin when they first arose, but rather something they learned how to do as a product of increased understanding of their bodies and calcic reality. As the writ goes, the Fel-Arcad were the first to make use of an elementary form of the Conjugation, before iteration upon the original process yielded the final form it now takes. The reactions to it by the Third Kin were mixed to say the least.

**The Fel-Arcad**
Being the ones who pushed inquiry in this direction in the first place, the Fel-Arcad consider themselves staunch practitioners of the Conjugation and find it an important component and manifestation of the values they espouse. Considering the Fel are the Switchboard's foremost practitioners of same-sex relationships and polyamory, the Conjugation makes possible what otherwise wouldn't be so, that being children from 'biologically' impossible matchups, and children with multiple parentage. So widespread is the practice of the Conjugation in Fel society that they have come to generally disregard conventional intercourse altogether, even for pleasure, with many Fel simply not raised to realize that the process is even pleasurable at all. Some Fel have made it something of a matter of principle, whereby the Conjugation - via facilitating more kinds of union than the conventional - is thus 'better' than the conventional by an amorphous metric of egalitarianism in the building of familial structure, and raw utility, in the way you'd judge a drill better than a screwdriver.

An exception to this - as it is the most things Fel-Arcad - are the Rosenthalists, who view the Conjugation practice as abnormal. Much of their objection to it comes from how it perpetuates modifications made in shape from parent to child, denying them - as they see it - a chance for a life of normalcy. This is hardly their only objection however, with some criticizing the social and occasional physiological complications that arise from multiple parentage, the hubris exhibited by the Fel in seeking to 'control everything', the Fel's unnatural and manufactured abhorrence of the natural, and further complaints in much the same vein.

**The Sil'khan**
The Sil'khan valued the Conjugation for a singular major purpose; the doctrine of reincarnation brought about by the understanding of their short lives and the mechanics of the Calcic Current. Conventional intercourse yields children that draw from the Current in much more limited capacities, meaning that the eventual child's traits and quirks are more so a product of their direct parentage than from drawing from the deep well that is the Current. For the Sil'khan, the 'soft reincarnation' made possible by having descendants that inherit weft from ancestors further up their family trees - and from ancestors not even related to them at all - falls inline with Sil'khan religious conviction, of which essential parts are ancestral worship and perpetuation of the self even beyond death. The Fel live long in truth, but the Sil'khan live long in spirit - in which the wills and powers of ancestors past live long through their children, perpetuating their pattern throughout the Switchboard even long after the original weavers are dead. This tenet is what makes the Sil'khan clans and the Skydancer Apostolics what they are; long chains of imperfect reincarnation, a recycling of old into stronger new, made possible by the Conjugation.

It also doesn't help that the Sil'khan during their synthesis in the Fel-Arcad's triptych crucibles suffered an error at the Fel's hands; they were created with virtually nothing by way of understanding of sex or sexuality, and thus lacked the innate drive to have sex, reproduce and the faculties to be parents in an emotional sense. The Sil'khan have little by way of understanding of 'parent' and 'child' as concepts, beyond viewing one as having lived longer than the other, and even then they aren't particularly sure of why those concepts have the attachments to them that they do, in particular the idea of obligation of parent towards child, and subservience of child towards parent. The Sil'khan judge seniority by a singular metric; merit and accolades earned in pursuits across the Dancirah. Their 'broken' perceptions towards sexuality have been somewhat rectified by observing the other families and inherited cultural material from their Old Danseer ancestors - and as such they do practice somewhat loose approximations of gendered roles - but in an overwhelming majority of cases, the Sil'khan are simply clueless about the entire ordeal, and thus somewhat subject to whatever makes the greatest impression on them with regards to shaping their perceptions on sexuality. 

That Sil'khan aren't born with a desire to have sex results in a society where few do, and new-born Sil'khan simply assume this to be the norm, and thus do little by way of inquiry or challenging it. Some who learn of intercourse - often via encountering members of the other families - might assume that their almost non-existent practice of it might mean it is taboo in some means, but those who dig deeper find that this is hardly the case, and it is more so that the Conjugation is valued because it allows for upholding religious tenets, and furthering distinctly Sil'khan manners of living. Some who then go on to engage in sexual activity - having been completely unpossessed of the desire to do so - may then shape their perception of the Conjugation around how they viewed the intercourse they had, this perception being shaped continually and towards a final, nearly unshakable form by continued practice. The Silk's perception towards the Conjugation then, varies primarily by religious zealotry; all Sil'khan have a generally positive view of the Conjugation, with Sil'khan zealots having an ideologically-consistent affinity for it, and varies secondarily by whether the subject has had conventional intercourse or not, with some Sil'khan coming to either like or dislike the Conjugation based on their experience with 'the real thing'.

**The Vahnkin**
Lacking the Weave Protocol, the Vahnkin are automatically incapable of the Conjugation, already souring their disposition towards it somewhat as yet another facet of the power they've been deprived off by mere circumstance of birth. Though it would come later, the sour relations between the Vahnkin and the Fel-Arcad would lead to a total rejection and demonization of the more fringe Fel practices, noteworthily the Conjugation. This was part of a greater cultural shift of coming to despise everything that was associated with the great families who still lived above, upon realizing that none had condemned the Antamaran sentiments that arose among the Fel, and the eventual shape it took as the conflicts that were waged against them. And the fact the Conjugation is terribly difficult to perform in the Void due to the atmosphere that actively forbids any kind of complex chalkweaving has resulted in many being mostly unaware of it as a practice. 

> This section is incomplete, as the canon of the Vahnkin isn't as conclusively developed.

**The Lancasters**
Lacking the power to weave chalk, the Lancasters are unable to perform the Conjugation. The underdog placement of the Lancasters in this manner tends to 'taint' how they view the Switchboard and the rest of denizens, and by extension their practices, with the Lancasters coming to view the Conjugation as terribly unnatural. 

One of the more interesting critiques levied against the practice, however, is the distinct lack of romanticism and commitment to the affair, as they put it. An oft-echoed Lancaster doctrine is a series of loosely documented but strongly held perceptions about love - something the Lancaster have come to believe is the true power they hold as a great family, in absence of the power conferred by stride and weft. The Fel's view of love being something communitarian; shared among seemingly as many people as possible, and the Sil'khan mostly lacking the concept altogether has made many Lancasters conclude that the Conjugation is a product of a people and a society that sees no more meaning to the making of children than the perpetuation of themselves. That the Conjugation is so - as they perceive it- loveless and mechanical to the point of being optimizable and wholly doable without cost upon those involved is a subtle reflection of the nature of the other great families as whole.

The Lancasters argue that conventional means - by compelling those involved towards each other - serves as glue that holds their society together, reinforcing the Lancaster peoples and ideals in the face of a world clearly not made for them. The Fel-Arcad's manner of community - they argue - is something compelled from the top down, rather than emerging naturally from the interplay of peoples. And the Sil'khan have little by way of community or even concept of family, with Sil'khan hardly even sticking around to see their own children be born as a nature of their birthing practices, outsourcing parenting to the entirety of the wild, cruel-in-apathy Switchboard, and feeling that all obligations one has is to themselves and the Skydancers - 'dead gods', they mockingly insist. The Lancasters scorn the Conjugation as a product of sexless, loveless, hedonistic, self-centered machinations, and a veritable facet of never-ending decline.

### Kissless Kin
The Sil'khan were synthesized in the Fel's crucibles with no concept of sexuality, an error made in the synthesis process as it was handled by the Fel. Without enough Danseer backbone material to synthesize a new batch - much less the absolute ethical nightmare that doing so would be - the Fel and the Sil'khan were more or less compelled to live the mistake they had made; the Fel doing so through endless debate over every nuance of the process of making the Sil'khan, and the Sil'khan by just getting on with it.

It wasn't without consequence however. Briefly discussed above on the matter of how they view the Conjugation, the full breadth of having 'no concept of sexuality' encompasses the physiological and the mental; Sil'khan are born with no innate sex drive, no concept of physical attraction, little awareness of the differences between sexes and presentations, an abject lack of knowledge on the matter as it doesn't perpetuate into later generations through the Current (a quirk unique to the Sil'khan) and in general suffer from an impermeable cluelessness that is immediately apparent upon even the lightest prodding.

It is truly something to behold. In nearly all other subject matter and domains, the Sil'khan are possessed with an infectious fervor. They are boisterous, spirited, lively - downright bouncy - and approach all things with confidence and zeal. The Sil'khan are defined by an inviolable awareness of the fact they are descendants of the closing things to gods to have ever walked the Switchboard, and it manifests on a scale of supreme certainty in themselves to outright arrogance. But when quizzed on anything relating to attraction to other persons, or intercourse, or parenting and having children, they appear strangely mentally stuck - like a machine that has had otherwise rapidly spinning parts suddenly lock up in strained stillness - receding into, as some would put it, the void where awareness of the subject matter should be. Deeply inconvenienced by even the slightest implication that their family pride might have a flaw in it, many Sil'khan subtly - or not - steer the discussion away from the subject, becoming irritated at insistence upon discussing it, choosing to withdraw or occasionally to become violent.

But the hole bugs them, by the stars does it truly. The Sil'khan view questioning as challenge, and an inability to respond as defeat - and they very much despise defeat.

Shackled somewhat by their pride but still propelled by the discomfort that comes from not knowing, the Sil'khan seek out answers, but hardly ever from others - including other Sil'khan, believing, almost humorously, that all others have figured it out, and being the only one who hasn't would draw immense mockery to their faces. And so they seek out information where they can;

- Some are lucky; while the Sil'khan do not practice much by way of parentage, those who've lived amongst the other families and realized the uniqueness of the problem they face make it a point to share the solutions they find with other Sil'khan, they being uniquely capable to do so having lived the experience and thus knowing the language to speak to convey the message. 

- Others are somewhat less lucky, studying secondhand material like fictional and non-fictional writ produced by various other persons in the Dancirah. This group tends to be subdivided by what writ it was, with some skewed by fictional writ towards a perception of sexuality based on authorship and storytelling, and the others skewed by nonfiction into a perception of sexuality that has a distinctly medical and biological hue to it.

- The third group are those who get access to the DevitNet to seek answers. Some do get genuinely useful information, but far more are forced to traverse murky waters with no guide, and wind up with views concocted by being blind and led by the blind themselves. 

- And the categorical worst outcome are those in the fourth group, who fall victim to those who exploit their ignorance for their own ends. This one in particular is elaborated upon later.

Inevitably, they many do eventually seek out a means to do the deed itself, a necessary capping-off to the journey of discovery, as it were. The culmination of all factors - their innate nature, how they delved into sexual matters, their resulting disposition towards it, their first and first few sexual experiences, and their experience with *that* - then give rise to a final set of perceptions that sociologists and studies among the Sil'khan - few for one, and questionable with regards to their methodology, for another - these perceptions and thus the people who hold them being broadly classifiable into four main groups.

- The **anodynes**, who came out the other end of the tunnel much as they entered it. They are defined by being rather 'normal' about the entire affair, exhibiting interest or a lack of it, but are generally defined by a very middling perception. In a sense, they are a very comfortable average, sitting comfortably atop a bell curve. Having acquired both knowledge and experience, they are generally a completely normal lot, and the vast majority of Sil'khan find themselves sorted into this category.

- The **nymphs** skew things to one side of an extreme. Newfound knowledge and experience combine with the typical Sil'khan zealotry and fervor to yield a subject possess by an immense interest in sexual matters and desire for sexual congress. While for some they are merely just more enthusiastic than the normal and may express so in manners ranging from reclusion from public eye to satisfy certain interests, to a more overt manner of exhibition, some find themselves possessed of a very literal mania, to the point of adverse affects upon themselves and others. Developing on the paths they took to get to this point, they might exhibit a number of paraphilias ranging from questionable to worrisome, and many in this category were somewhat 'pushed' towards it by persons with ill intentions.

- The **maligned** are the veritable opposite of the nymphs, and are defined by a palpable revulsion towards it all. Perhaps as a product of what they were exposed to, how it was presented, or their experiences, they find themselves suffering a visceral rejection to the subject, transiting from not knowing to abjectly refusing to know, speak or hear on it any longer. Considering they are something of a minority with regards to outcomes, they might find themselves passively isolated, and the result is that many have their disgust fanned and graduate to a fervent hatred, with merely wanting to be spared discussion of the subject becoming a desire to eliminate it.

- The **haptics** are a category that some feel are division of nymphs, but they differ too much in practice as the haptics have an almost universal disinclination to any manner of sexual congress involving penetrative action. Instead, they become - as some put it - terribly 'cuddly', obtaining satisfaction from proximity and touch, the more succinct means of putting it being 'skinship'. Many instead favor other means of sexual practice that may or may not involve intercourse, and as a group generally exhibit more paraphilias than the norm.

#### Cultural Ramifications
Associated with all things sweet and desirable - food, spirits, company, victory - the Skydancer Leilani has additionally had a sexual hue tacked on to her as Sil'khan society and culture has evolved. The Danseers - as it would seem - were riotous in all things, including love and lovemaking, and they have passed on their practices in writ and orally to their Sil'khan descendants. Many of the Skydancer Leilani's apostolics - those who possess a religious allegiance with her - perform their worship through the performance of sexual acts, and pleasure-seekers who are willing to abide by the rules are more than often free to peruse the many apostolic nymphs and haptics in diligent service to their 'Dancer Mistress'. Many Sil'khan settlements - particularly their star-faring fleets - are outfitted with accommodations for both Leilan apostolics and the many who are interested in the clandestine, savory things they offer, facilitated by an understanding that what takes place within the confines of the Mistress' abode are not permitted to leave it. Humorous to many is the inevitable, innumerable conspiracies that spawn from the practice, with many suspecting - sometimes insisting - that the Sil'khan have cultivated a literal 'sex magic'.

Conversely are a brand of Sil'khan puritan who finds themselves tortured by many nuances of the subject, and some are inclined to - as Sil'khan tend to do - take manners into their own hands. Just as there are many Sil'khan who enjoy a little bit of arguably promiscuity as a product of awareness of how it simply feels to do it, there are many who have come to view the practice not as sinful, but as evocative of a vague disgust that they cannot fully articulate. Not solid like rain, but fickle like smoke, an inescapable, choking cloud of 'wrongness' that stems from the intersection of things too numerous to mention. Something about it all - the secrecy, the way faces contort, the drawn curtains and blinds, the instruments, the sounds, the way it forms some unions and shatters others just as easily, the seemingly underhandedness where something is wanted but an essential bit of getting it is posturing that one doesn't actually need it - it all seems like a tangled web of messiness that feels immensely un-Sil'khan. And yet, even when it is boisterous, zealous and explicit - distinctly Sil'khan - it seems all the worse to them. They simple cannot escape, and as such some are moved to act against it, some Sil'khan orders demanding a form of ascetism from their followers, impositions to avoid this strange subject out of fear of the taint it brings.

### Philias
An interesting question is what the denizens of the Switchboard find attractive.

#### Kin Shapes
Overwhelmingly, Third Kin are attracted to third kin and depictions of them, an attraction arising as a product of their very lattices. An interesting question that follows, then, is which of the great families are voted to have the most attractive members on average.

The Sil'khan are widely regarded as immensely attractive as a product of intrinsic quirks of their physiology that are exaggerated beyond all others. The Sil'khan innate grow and stand taller, build muscle more easily, hold curves and definitions better, walk steadier and boast superior posture, possess better proportions on both their bodies and facial features, their skin is clearer, teeth more orderly, hair more luscious and they stay youthful for longer. The Sil'khan with their combination of shape and nature makes them every bit the god-children they are positioned to be - it doesn't help that the halos that grow from their heads are themselves also points of attraction - and the vast majority of the Switchboard - often grudgingly - concede that even an average looker among the Sil'khan is still a sight for sore eyes.

The Fel-Arcad are very anatomically different from the rest of the Switchboard - what with horns, tails and six fingers to a hand - and thus attraction to them outside of the Fel themselves is far more frequently an 'acquired taste'. Attraction to the Fel is still decently common place, but considering how few of them traverse the Starwylds asides from the Feljourn, they and their unique shapes still tend to be a rare sight, and some don't realize that they have the attractions that they do until getting a proper glimpse of them. For some, there is the sometimes mocking, sometimes serious accusation that follows a discovery of attraction to Fel-Arcad as being just a step above or even indistinguishable from an attraction to animals, but many more level-headed persons without an axe to grind recognize this for what it is; motivated reasoning.

The Lancasters and Vahnkin do not deviate very much from our own body plans beyond coloration of skin and hair, but for the Vahnkin being - on average - shorter than the other third kin, and the Lancasters generally bearing hardier, leaner builds. The former is a product of the heightened gravity of the Void, which the Vahnkin have indeed adapted to but not without consequence, while the latter is a product of the Lancaster lifestyle being one defined by a subtle, passive war with reality itself, where - deprived of various powers - they are compelled to go distances under their own innate power. All the same, they are considered attractive by plenty as well, with the rough, weathered look of the Lancasters and the stocky builds of the Vahnkin finding many an appreciator. 

#### Ks and Fs
But beyond the normal attractions denizens of the Switchboard have to the shape of their kind, some possess others that may push the envelope just a tad bit into the realm of 'unfit for discussion in polite company'.

As an example, the Sil'khan - and most of the Third Kin, though to a considerably lesser extent - have a cultural fixation on the hands and feet. It is something seeded in them long ago, as far back as when the kin first arose from inert chalk into complex, living pattern; a product of the fact that the weave and strider protocols are associated with the hands and feet, respectively, in their function. Weaving is done with the hands and fine control with the fingers, striding flight is done with the feet, and fine control with the toes, and so it came to be understood that these body parts were to be valued, protected, and later revered. It manifested in a number of Sil'khan cultural practices, such as the washing of feet and the clipping and tending of finger and toenails being a sign of hospitality, respect, and often deference.

Inevitably, however, it came to take on a sexual hue, and parts that are arguably wholly unsexual came to take on this element within certain contexts. Most Sil'khan are beautiful by the metrics of the Switchboard, but most Sil'khan are ironically not that attracted to other Sil'khan, abundance breeding familiarity, resulting in disinterest. The Sil'khan find members of the other families - the Fel-Arcad with their esoteric silhouettes, the Lancasters with their heavily contrasting roughness, and the even the Vahnkin with their 'lovable' and 'cute' (much to their ire) physiques - to be far more interesting, and interest in the Sil'khan is frequently the driver of great pursuit. But nothing interests the Sil'khan as much as the hands and feet of others, and the haptics in particular are very fond of tending to them as an expression of intimacy, and others employ them in practice in manners beyond the conventional.

The Fel-Arcad - what with their already greatly differing bodies from rest of the Switchboard, and their penchant for bodily modification meaning they can very different from person to person - expectedly have come to make use of and value their own various physiological differences with regards to expressing intimacy, viewing sexual activity as an exercise in becoming comfortable in one's own body, and expressing it to others in a way that allows them to do the same. The Fel's sexuality focuses much on accommodating and accounting for the differences in shape, working to make the totality of the other person - every quirk of form and function - feel as loved as they should. What typically falls outside of the bounds deemed sexually natural for others in the Switchboard is standard fare for the Fel-Arcad, and the openness of mind they possess makes them far more open to more fringe attractions, their guiding maxim being the insistence on safety, consent, and respect.

The Vahnkin and Lancasters have decidedly more conservative societies with regards to sexual practice and fringe sexual interests. For one, it means that most who engage in sexual practice do so in manners viewed as acceptable by wider society. On the other hand however, there is a fair bit of repression among many, that tends to unfold in secret and away from prying eyes when given the chance.

The Vahnkin having a matriarchal society as well as religious doctrine that values ascetism results in most Vahnkin having decidedly different perceptions on sexual dynamics, that being that it is not meant to be had frequently, be reveled in too greatly, and that the feminine figure is the dominant one. It has led to those who find themselves unfulfilled and unsatisfied seeking out relief in the extensive underground establishments that exist to satiate certain appetites. The existence of so many taboos has, in a sense, bred an amount of discontentment that sees many feel hungry despite having eaten. Their own rules around courtship and premarital relations hasn't done much to solve this problem - only exacerbating it if anything - and much of the Vahnkin's sexual congress is enjoyed guiltily and passionately. A pervading sense of shame throughout their culture - about feeling attraction and having little by way of avenues to express it - defines much of the fringe 'perversions' - as the Vahnkin themselves would call it - that the Vahnkin engage with. Same-sex attraction among the Vahnkin is particularly ill-regarded and thusly among the most shamefully enjoyed things among them.

Functioning much like the Vahnkin albeit more loosely, the Lancasters are fairly conservative themselves though with occasional accommodations and allowances. For them, it is truly just a matter of keeping it away from public eyes and ears. With regards to the fringe things that they find attractive, many Lancasters - as a product of their placement as a great family in the Switchboard - find themselves deeply enamored at 'getting back' at them, as they were. Many Lancasters mentally entertain themselves with the prospect of dominating one of the other great families' members - particularly the Sil'khan, *especially* the Sil'khan - as something approaching outrightly retributive. But just as there are those who take this direction, there are others who take a completely different - opposing - angle, taking immense pleasure out of ill-treatment by the other families and submitting to them, and have come to actively desire more of it as a sort of acquired taste.

### On Taboos
The Switchboard's various quirks and those of the people within it has yielded differing dispensations - differing from us, anyway - on certain sexual taboos, namely sexual relations with family members and similar with those viewed as being too young to be capable of consenting. The general rule on this matter is that those who practice the Conjugation - the Fel-Arcad and the Sil'khan - believe differently from us, while those who do not - the Vahnkin and Lancasters - believe mostly the same.

#### On Incest
The Sil'khan case is unique as the Sil'khan generally do not have an operative structure of family that prohibits having sex with any of the members within it. The Sil'khan generally organize themselves into 'clans', each clan being descended from the first Sil'khan that arose from the slurry of the Fel's triptych crucibles. Considering that most Silk children will never know their parents, and most parents will never know their children - all Sil'khan individuals being actual 'children' of a distant, parental figure in the shape of their crucible-bforn ancestors, metaphorical children of the Skydancers, and also metaphorical children of the Switchboard itself - they exist with little by way of familial positioning relative to each other, with the closest thing being loosely-recognized demarcations of 'senior' and 'junior' - this also being not a product of age or relationship, but of merit.

As such, the Sil'khan simply aren't subject to accusations of being incestuous as any instance of it is unintentional, but also because of the far more core issue of entirely lacking the structural framework that incest exists within. It is not so much that they do not care that they aren't even aware there is a problem, and conveying the problem requires first describing a structure to them that - though easily grasped in theory - is entirely nonexistent in practice.

With regards to how the Sil'khan perceive it when it is described to them, their perception varies immensely from person to person, with some understanding why there might be some issues with it - what with the power imbalance being very ripe grounds for abuse, and the possibility of children born with defects as well, should countermeasures not be in place. Others take very little issue with it, viewing the matter through the lens that the Sil'khan always employ; those who are greater enjoying a greater richness of being than those who are lesser, and occasionally - sometimes frequently - at the expense of them. To them, the right to not be abused in this manner is earned, rather than something inherent, and as such they are inclined towards seeing it as a non-issue. Many Sil'khan find the question of defects in progeny to be a non-issue as well - what with means of preventing conception being existent, and the plasticity of lattices making fixing such defects, should they be more physiological than mental, fairly trivial.

The Fel-Arcad are ultimately quite ambivalent, a position they are able to take due to their belief that love should be shared with little by way of boundaries, and the fact that their technologies are supremely capable of rectifying a majority of complications that might emerge from this. While Fel do not actively seek out such relations, it is generally not frowned upon, with the only major qualifying metric being the consent of all parties involved. That being said, the Fel are aware of this being seen as outrightly abominable by other families in the Switchboard, and even the Fel are not wholly resistant to the influx of external ideas. As such, while incest within a generation (between siblings or cousins) tends to occur, across generations (parent and child) is seen as fairly strange.

The Vahnkin and Lancasters are mostly the same in seeing the practice as irreparably damning, and it is woven deep in their culture that the practitioners of it are to be ousted, shunned and punished, and the products of it to be pitied. Being different families however, they do approach the entire matter somewhat differently.

- The Vahnkin generally 'okay' marrying one's own cousin, as it was viewed as far enough from marrying a sibling to be tolerable, but primarily because it allowed for the Vahnkin royalty and nobles to preserve the integrity of their dynasties cultivated in the Void. Intermarriage between the descendants of the foremost Kin of Vahn from ages past allowed for fairly linear and isolated family trees that kept their power within that family, this being viewed as generally essential to their survival and maintaining their relevance. Defects from relations with distant relatives in this manner tend to be lessened among the Vahnkin due to their blessed placement as the denizens of the Void, and the favor of the Amaranth Sultan.

- The Lancasters are far more draconian in a sense, in that even cousin marrying is greatly frowned upon. That they have no insurance against progeny born with defects from the practice is only second to the far more prominent reason why the Lancasters oppose it; that incestuous relations and marriage are selfish, because relations in this manner should be used to bridge families together and build stronger wholes. The Lancasters are highly reliant on a dense, interconnected net of persons to drive their identarian unity, and the power that arises thereof, and relations that do not work towards furthering this are seen as wasteful at best, and bordering on heretical at worst.

#### On Pedophilia
Discussions of the subject in the Switchboard is complicated by two major quirks of the verse; the asymmetry of ages between the great families, and the relationship between age and maturity, and thus the ability to consent to sexual practice when considering those born via the Conjugation.

The age of majority within a family is something fairly simple to obtain, and society can be subsequently structured around it to accord privileges and responsibilities to those above it, and protections and rights to those below it. The immediate complication is when comparing between families. The Fel-Arcad live so disproportionately long compared to the other great families that judging a relationship had between a Fel-Arcad and non-Fel on purely the grounds of age would result in the Fel being seen as erring in nearly every occasion. The Sil'khan and Lancasters have roughly equivalent lifespans, but most Sil'khan are born through the Conjugation, and as such a one-year-old Sil'khan has the mental and anatomical maturity of a Lancaster in their mid-teens. Judging the ability to consent by purely using age results in a number of bounds of interfamily relations being viewable as pedophilic.

The Vahnkin and Lancasters have somewhat 'solved' this problem by generally frowning upon relations outside of their families - for both of them it being a matter of principle, but for the Vahnkin it is particularly one of geography - by this is not a hard rule by virtue of it not being a universal sentiment. For many then, the only real metric of judging whether a subject is a 'child' and thus it would be morally questionable to sexually engage with them is one of knowledge and awareness; if they know of sexual matters and are aware of when sexual practice is ongoing compared to when it isn't, they are thus judged capable of consenting. An interesting ramification of the rule is that all Sil'khan are effectively judged to be 'children' until otherwise informed.

The conundrum begs looking at the problem of pedophilia through another angle; whether the aim is to prevent sexual congress with those unaware of what they are doing, rather than to simply prevent sexual congress with children - who simply fit under this designation. It is the former that the Switchboard operates upon; the moral thing to do being not exploiting another's ignorance for your own gain. While varying persons and the great families as a whole might have differing dispensations to this maxim, the overwhelming majority of persons in the Switchboard generally understand lying to be bad, even if not espousing the idea that it therefore should be avoided.

Varying among the families as well is the punishment for the act of sexually exploiting someone judged incapable of consenting. The Lancasters and Vahnkin are fairly predictable; punishment is swift, harsh and occasionally fatal in stiff enough circles. The Fel-Arcad see it as a fairly stiff crime as well, though they see it as something that can be 'educated out off' the perpetrators, rather than an intrinsic quality of their person, thus demanding their restriction from engagement in wider society or outright elimination. The Sil'khan are somewhat pretty lax, viewing the world - again - through greater exploiter and lesser exploited classes. That being said, many Sil'khan who are educated on it all take it upon themselves to inform others so they cannot be victimized, and punish those who do the victimization. 

## Red Narrative
The subject of red in narrative.

### pNarrat: An Illicit Taste for Gold
The Sil'khan exist in a unique position that makes them - in a manner wholly inconsistent with how they present themselves - worryingly exploitable.

The Sil'khan practice of seeding their children on just about any planet and in any locale that is deemed adequate enough means that most Sil'khan are born on sparsely or wholly uninhabited worlds, and following their birth is the immediate strife that comes with being dreadfully uninformed of what one is or where they are, with 'where they are' being often hostile environments or ones that can quickly become such. Many die. But the few who survive do so by proving themselves time and time again, overcoming trial after trial, until eventually the true shape of their heritage is made manifest as an awakening of their wings; the Strider Protocol. A Sil'khan who has been conferred their power of flight fears nothing.

But in the moment before that, they are dreadfully vulnerable. Knowing this, there are many who make it a practice to track down growing Sil'khan conjugates or newly-born Sil'khan out in the wilds and uninhabited sectors of a planet. Some have genuinely good intentions - Feljourn and other starfarers are known to rescue Sil'khan in their infancy fairly frequently, knowing that they can likely reap some reward if they are tendered to other Sil'khan in one piece. But there are others with far darker intentions; the Sil'khan to many are dreadfully attractive, especially in their infancy, and some have made it a point to hunt these young godchildren to slake their thirst for gold.

Captured Sil'khan find themselves transported fairly swiftly into the Switchboard's underground, the largest supporting infrastructure of it being the Rosenthalist-run black arcologies and the Lancaster-run contraband logistical network of unregistered star freighters and off-grid free-standing and orbital ports. Open auctioning and back room deals are how the 'merchandise' is traded, and the final customers are almost always someone who had a taste for it and found that nothing else would compare ever again. Colloquially, they've been called 'aristocrats', derived from how they need gold - the gold blood that drips from the Silks - to satisfy them, and nothing else comes close. Their innate attractiveness and naivete is the entire appeal, as with that clay they can mold just about anything they could want, with the endgame of many being to have what are effectively pets.

The demographics of these aristocrats vary. It is almost never other Sil'khan, due to their general disinterest in each other with regards to physical attraction, and a somewhat principled opposition to the idea of selling their own kin. Vahnkin generally despise Sil'khan too much to even treat them as property, leaving the Lancasters and the Fel-Arcad.

The Lancasters are fairly easy to understand; their being positioned as inferior to the other great families and suffering the brunt of others being aware of it instills within many of them an anger that goes above and beyond normal bounds. The ability to take this out on a very physical example of those that oppress them is a fantasy for many, but an achievable reality for those with the means. Be it for menial labor or sexual gratification, given the means, a driven-enough mind will find the ends.

But the Fel-Arcad are somewhat different, and it stems from the fact that the Fel who would buy a Sil'khan or come to keep one - as there is a sort of consensual alternative to it all, though the psychological backing of it is somewhat the same - are a product of the unique conditions of the arcologies working to ablate - among other things - the idea of any one person's or group's superiority over another. Many go along with this willingly, some need a fair bit of convincing, but get there eventually. But there are some who are ever-so-dissatisfied at the fact that - substantiated or not - their feeling of superiority over others isn't corroborated by the world around them. None address them any differently than they do others, no one bows respectively when they passes, none come to seek them out for the preternatural intellect and wisdom they possess. It is deeply infuriating, and they find themselves needing an out.

Some simply leave the arcologies. Some learn to live with the eternal feeling of seething. Some channel the anger that emerges into fervid pursuits, often disrupting the natural order of Fel living in a manner that draws attention - something they sorely desire. But some channel it in a different direction; a desire to subjugate but in a different way. And for them, a Sil'khan that they can treat like a lesser - as sort of pet, servant, lover, some unholy mix of these or something else in entirely - is a suitable outlet for the deference they have come to feel they deserve. These Fel - despite their leanings - are still generally uncomfortable with outrightly purchasing one, considering the logistics of it makes it immensely difficult to bring one into an arcology without explanation. Some choose instead to finance others - such as the Feljourn - to rescue one for them, or do it themselves, citing it as a sort of adoption instead.

But there is another path that involves the Spyndl Academy.

Wealthy 'aristocrat' Fel have a habit of sponsoring the Spyndl Academy's operations or even individual operators or teams of them for their various operations and other miscellaneous things, and in return they are obligated - though the word is used fairly loosely - by the Spyndl to serve the sponsor in question. 'Serve' is a term laden with connotations, with the actual terms of such agreements being subject to negotiation between parties, with the sponsor generally bargaining from higher grounds. For many Sil'khan, the arrangement is more than amicable for them, particularly those who are inclined towards the almost guaranteed sexual gratification that will be asked from them, as the Sil'khan as a people are generally disinclined towards harder work that they might've otherwise had to do to earn their keep. Some, however, are less aware of what is actually being asked of them, and the Spyndl Academy is often incentivized - sometimes even directly by the sponsors - to keep them in the dark about the whole affair.

When quizzed on what was effectively a robust and well-known trafficking of their kind, many Sil'khan said they were disinclined to interfere. When quizzed further on why, the Sil'khan tend to lay out an aspect of their credo; that Sil'khan are born from chalk, but perfected through strife, and be it the hostile wilds of the Switchboard, or hard service to cruel masters in the underground, all Sil'khan already have what it takes to triumph above it. They need only realize it; that these people around them, they are not like them - they are less than them - the stars were not made for them or inherited by them they way it was for the Danseers and the Sil'khan. And this realization - that they are higher beings made for higher things - is the catalyst for the straits within them growing hot and glowing gold, and awakening forth as a burst of hallowed velocity; the Strider Protocol.

And few things can hold back or even survive a Sil'khan awakened to their power and hewn into their shape by wrath. An illicit taste for gold rarely goes unpunished, and it quickly turns to fire on the tongue, burning those who thought themselves 'aristocrats'. 

### pNarrat: On Transitioning in the Verse
> Previously contained in [[Birthing and Being]], this subject is being revised to make it more conversant with what I actually want to convey.

A long while ago, I and the good doctor - while working on an earlier iteration of this document as well as [[The Fel-Arcad|Fel-Arcad]] document, discussed the intricacies of someone being transgender in the Switchboard. As Hex asked for an I agreed with, we wanted to approach the entire affair with a deserved amount of delicacy and empathy as it relates to the real state of transgender individuals in our world.

One of the good doctor's points was talking about how the physiological consequences of chalk - as they were established at the time and remain mostly the same now - was that of a deep simplicity surrounding the affairs of body modification. It was simply incredibly easy to change the shape of the self towards one's own ends, meaning that if one desired to undergo any kind of gender-affirming bodily modifications in the Switchboard, it was fairly simple to do so.

It thus made 'being transgender' in the Switchboard - outside of the social and cultural hang-ups about the entire affair - a holistically more tolerable affair.

There was a sort of throwaway point - almost that the doctor made about the affair being *too* simple, and that this would be less than ideal in how it contrasts the real-world difficulties surrounding being transgender. I cannot find the doctor's exact words from that time, nor mine, but I will expand on that thought using my own logics. The gripe that one might have with it being easy is that it is made less *meaningful*; that something that colors the totality of a person could be reduced, in-canon, to something thoroughly commonplace to satisfactorily resolve.

As one who seeks to create narrative, I saw an opportunity in this to make use of existing mechanics in the verse to somewhat reduce the 'simplicity' of the affair, creating - if not narratively-useful character ambitions and conflict - then at least fertile ground for those things to emerge.

The idea is simple. The various bits described under '**On Shape**' allow for deep alteration of one's gender presentation, and thus appearing as who or whatever one desires. One may also ask to be addressed in a certain manner as well, reflective of that desired presentation, and wholly similar to how it is done in our own world.

But the final step - in a sense - of what constitutes transitioning in the Switchboard, requires carrying out a relatively small [[Chalk Ritualism#Ledgerial Casts|ledgerial cast]]. The function of this cast is to revise one's own **Astrolabic ledger**, with the aim of altering the information within and thus, altering the nature of one's information, and by extension, the distortions in space created by the patterns *within* that information. All who view the transitioning subject via [[The Hands as Chalk#Weavesight|Weavesight]], as well as 'hear' these spatial distortions via the [[SB_Physiology#Sound and Hearing|evolved sense of hearing]] possessed by denizens of the Switchboard, will come to understand how they present as more than merely wearing a shape, but *being* that shape, in a manner indistinguishable from those in the Switchboard who bore that shape from birth.

The equivalent in our world would be rebuilding one's cellular makeup in a form identical to that of a desired sex, on the Switchboard's goes deeper than that, just about approaching the ontological level.

Considering the demands that Ledgerial Casts make of their aspiring casters, I feel it achieves the aims I set out to accomplish; providing an avenue for those in the verse to be what they are convicted of truly being, while making the road to get there narratively satisfying to observe.

> As a final note, this does in fact mean that, in a sense, preferred pronouns are transmitted via distortions in space - a deeply hilarious mental picture. On a colder note though, it does mean that those who still come to despise those who've undergone this cast, and choose instead to refer to them by who they once were and not who they now are, are deeply unsavory people.

> A more proper name for this specific ritual casting is needed. In this moment, I am somewhat enamored by Caves of Qud's [Ritual of -Elseing](https://wiki.cavesofqud.com/wiki/If,_Then,_Else), which I believe I can somewhat adapt to my intentions.
> 
> The canon history behind this ritual could use development as well. I see the Fel-Arcad being responsible above all, being the bearers of the Nadiran philosophies and current custodians of the Astrolabe via the Brass Monastery.