# (Name), The Vitric Shelf
Occupying the conceptual 'above' of the Switchboard, the Vitric Shelf situates itself. Being the origin of all Glass, the birthplace of the Shattered, nigh impassable by Strider and Weaver alike, with the ramifications of its nature almost heretical to Switchboard doctrines, the Shelf is regarded as the final frontier; the only un-walked road left for those who call themselves conquerors of the Sky. ^371924

## Preamble
All attempted sojourns by Striders and Weavers inevitably end in disaster as the Glass tears irreparably into their lattices and calcic powers and possessions. All that is known about the Shelf is acquired through observations of how it interacts with the Switchboard below, and what has been gleaned from various unmanned expeditions undertaken by machines designed with the knowledge they would not return.

## Geography
The Vitric Shelf consists solely of Glass. 

The entirety of the Vitric Shelf is familiar. Biomes exist; forest, plains, tall mountains, low valleys, rivers and possibly seas - but it is all made of Glass, meticulously shaped into the natural features it imitates. All greenery is Glass merely mimicking it. Mountains are jagged monoliths of misshapen conical Glass reaching for the heights. In place of water, the finest Glass flows through channels as if liquid. Something of a sun shines down on the expanse of the Shelf, and the Glass takes on rainbow hues, becoming kaleidoscopic and distorting to observe. 

Most of the Vitric Shelf is vast plain, interspaced by colossal Glass trees, reaching dozens of meters in the air and forming wide canopies through which light shines through and forms curtains of shifting color. Known simply as the '**Chromatic Wilds**', they stretch as far as any Strider or machine has been able to explore. Irrespective of how they enter the Shelf, they always emerge in the Wilds, and only last so long until the Glass in the air tears their essential systems to shreds.

The result is that researchers are left to speculate on the geography of the Shelf. Piecing together data gathered from various independent trips into the Shelf, they were able to determine the Shelf has mountainous regions, huge heaps of Glass that stretch too - and perhaps the most contentious bit of speculation on the Shelf - the Shelf's ceiling. Suspected by many is that the Vitric Shelf has a ceiling, deduced by experiments of firing light rays directly upwards and noticing it scatters, but is also reflected downwards. While it remains an oddity, it doesn't provide much by way of workable knowledge on the geography, except causing some to amend what they call 'mountains' to instead be colossal pillars that support the Shelf's ceiling.

Accessing the Vitric Shelf is done through the '**jaws**'; rifts or portals in the Switchboard inexplicably existing such that entrance is through one side and exit is through the other - so called as they are always found circumscribed with dagger-like 'teeth' of glass, causing the rift to resemble the mouth of a wicked beast. These jaws are considerably rare in the Switchboard, with the known locations being few and heavily guarded. Through these jaws, the Vitric Shelf seemingly 'feeds' on the Switchboard, something of note in later sections.
