# DocPass 2.0
None in the Switchboard escape the truths of life and death. Though many have pursued means to break out of this cycle, none are known to have been truly successful. It is within this inescapable dealt hand that one must find meaning in being; to live, rather than merely exist. All in the Switchboard have given it various names, but they describe the same thing; the nature of Passing - of moving from one thing to the next.

## Scope
The scope of this document are mechanical and philosophical, as they are intertwined with each other, speaking primarily on 'being' in the Switchboard, regarding the nature of lives.

## The Current
When living things in the Switchboard die, or more particularly entities with **memory straits**, their lattice unspools into pattern and ribbon, losing its many collective functions. This chalk returns to the Switchboard, may it may dissociate further into dust chalk and become latent in the environment, or joining more chalk and deposit as crystals in a Wellspring, or be lost to flux storm and become stardrip in the Void, or be obliterated by violent randomness from a law star. 

The fate of a deceased's chalk in the Switchboard is unknowable and varied, but there is one bit of certainty to it all; chalk always returns to the Switchboard in some regard. Things that live are cups of intricate pattern scooped from an ocean of discordant weave, and eventually they will return to that ocean, one way or another. It led to a ponderance of a 'cyclicality' intrinsic to the Switchboard; a universal underlying rule that sees the Switchboard subject to a universe-spanning calcic recycling system of sorts. That all chalk comes from the Switchboard, and will return to it, but be pulled from it once again, in the birth of new thinking weave and emergence of other phenomena. 

The Sil'khan call it '**The Leydin Dance**', the Fel-Arcad; '**The Great Weave**', and the Vahnkin gave it the name '**The Endless Tide**'. All are terms for the same thing; the philosophy around knowledge that the Switchboard's chalk is ancient and newborn at the same, existing in a unending loop that sees the powers and knowledge of the ages before bestowed upon the ages now and the ones to come. Most simply, it is called **The Current**.

The Current describes a system by which all that once was once becomes all that is, and this in turn becomes all that will be. As things die in the Switchboard, all that they were - pattern, ribbon, memory, their power and intellect, the ritual schema they knew, the principles they held, their Teks and powers and relics - all return to the Switchboard in some capacity, to be redistributed and reemerge, reborn in new hands and at new corners, on new frontiers, in a mechanics-level insistence that the Switchboard continues to exist, and *proceed* in a manner. The knowledge of ages past lives on in ages now.

It is this knowledge of the Current that sees many beings in the Switchboard struggle to survive and thrive not just for themselves, but for their progeny, that they may cultivate and pass on powerful chalk. In a bid to escape death, the beings of the Switchboard do the next best thing - strive to escape **irrelevance**. By passing on what is accumulated in their time, all that they've accumulated being 'marked' by their lattice, they persist onwards even beyond the grave. The Current makes this possible, being a mechanism that both facilitates, a doctrine that is practiced and thus proven true, and a law that is abided by in every action of bequeathing and inheritance.

Believed to be the baseline doctrine held by all in the Switchboard is the desire to live and continue living, often to persist even beyond death. When there is no higher reason to live for or cause to fight for, denizens of the Switchboard fall back on this elementary truth on the praxis level. To live is to imbibe the doctrine of living. To live in the Switchboard is to cultivate weave that will be left behind on death. To live is to defy death. All these things are done irrespective of conscious effort, and thus all who dwell in the Switchboard passively contribute to the **Doctrine of the Current**.


## The Sunward Ordeal
The stars - law stars - of the Switchboard have occupied a significant place in the Switchboard's mythos even before the Third Kin rose to begin conscious observation of this truth. The means by which the Astrolabe pours chalk and life into the Switchboard, the Astrolabes titanic computers, markers of navigation, givers of light, and a symbol of far more things in the Switchboard. Highly listed among what they symbolize are the lofty heights denizens of the Switchboard can attain, and the persistence required to reach them. But all know that to stray to near a star in the Switchboard is to ask to be torn to shreds by its immense radiance. Similarly, the paths to the things worth striving for are are frequently arduous, painful, long and trying. 

The burden nonetheless exists on many parties in the Switchboard to strive for these lofty heights, notwithstanding the difficulty implicit to them. This is the **Sunwards Ordeal**.

Contracted often to simply 'the ordeal', it is a blanket term that encompasses the many paths available to one in the Switchboard, as well as the active pursuit of them. Irrespective of scale, difficulty or significance, all in the Switchboard aspire for something. There is always some height to climb towards, some new feat to chase, even if for no other reason than the deepening on ones on calcic nature. Pursuit of the Ordeal in turn fulfills the Doctrine of Current; not just living, but doing so with purpose.

What is also the Ordeal is the task of finding one. For some this path is easy. For plenty others, finding an Ordeal to truly strive for, that is true to them may take longer than most. Some even never find it, and resign themselves to accruing various small or even significant accomplishments, and while these cumulatively may become something, they are still inferior to the mark left from the chisel-blow of the denizen of the Switchboard who truly knows their Ordeal.

Some who never find their Ordeal or make up for the void left by its absence with other things die and return to the Switchboard and the Current hungry, and even this hunger makes its way through the Current and is incarnated in another to rise in the future. Even failed ancestors still have something to give their progeny; a deep, primal hunger that reflects in all that they do, and drives them forward all their days.

## The Hated Path (Tentative Deprecation)
This might be deprecated or realized in some new form. I'm playing around with it being some kind of Sil'khan philosophical principle. 

**Legacy**
> For every law there is sin. For every one that chooses to walk a path, there are those who willfully spurn it. Just as many Striders pursue higher truths, power, legacy, and leaving boons for others behind in the Current, there are those who choose to live only for the life they have, doing nothing expected of Striders, pursuing no lofty aims or the like. 
> 
> With the Sunwards Path comes the Hated Path, a somewhat amorphously-defined set of behaviors and manners of thinking - a kitchen sink almost - that wider Strider society have deemed poor practice, warranting condemnation.

## The Samsara Protocol
> Something speculative. Take with considerable helpings of salt.

It is theorized that there exists means to escape the Current. That through some method, a Strider could enter the Current - alive and wholly, lattice intact - be unspooled and then rewoven back to their selves - body renewed - and return to life. It is theorized that the machinery for this is a structure or the like simply called the '**Outer Path**'. It is - expectedly - the highest secret pondered by calcic kind.

## pNarrat: The Strider Protocol
A discussion on the less mechanical nature of the Strider Protocol; more on the effects it has on those who wield it regarding their Passing in the Switchboard.

### The Velocity Doctrine
> This will contain the philosophical jargon in [[The Strider Protocol]].


### Concept: The Social Implications of the Strider Protocol
The Strider Protocol has namely two social effects on those who wield it; it isolates them, and it allows them for living 'faster'. The nature of the Strider Protocol as an isolationist force is inherent to the fact it allows placing vast distances between the user and others, and placing these vast distances is incentivized by the nature of the Switchboard as a place filled with adventure.  Despite the fact that the Law Stars upon which the Strider Protocol depends also gradually kills its practitioners, it is a death slow enough as to be accepted as inevitable as death itself already is. 

The second aspect, living faster, has the effect of 'slimming down' the nature of the Strider's social interactions. Striders are very much subject to the adage of rolling stones gathering no moss. A Strider can be in twenty different cities in a day, and sleep under a different star each day of a week, and while these are all experiences and the sum of them is indeed something decently 'large', they are lacking in a depth that comes only from slowing down, pausing, taking time to grow roots in a context and form connections with those present in these contexts. Striders find themselves living and running alongside other Striders mainly, because only Striders can keep up with each other, and the only connections that can be formed are ones that, when the context is adjusted for speed, what is observed changes from someone moving faster than a relatively static world, to a slow world that can't keep up with someone relatively static. Striders form their bonds at thousands of kilometers an hour, and so are constrained often to only forming somewhat lasting friendships and bonds with other Striders. 

That being said, the consequence of living faster means that Striders are naturally constrained to doing things that fall within the bands of 'living faster'. They are encouraged - compelled almost - to pursue only things that demand usage of the Strider Protocol in their pursuit. Traversing the stars, travelling to far-flung sectors of the Switchboard, exploring regions, chasing rumors and 'x's on the map in hope some great reward such as artifacts or Teks or ritual schema - power in any and all forms - awaits them at the end of it. Testing mettle in fighting the multifarious threats that dot the skies. Proving the sheer depth of their strength in kache krashing operations against the mighty vaults. Striders pursue things, power and accolades. It helps to ask what is a 'win condition' for a Strider. What is a social victory for a wielder of the Strider Protocol?

An answer to that is found in [[The Cyclicality of Names]]. By living and acting in the Switchboard, traversers of it build repute and rumor, and these two things translate into physical, tangible power. They weave themselves into the grand tapestry of the Switchboard's tales. They are yet another chisel-blow on the marble slate of the Switchboard's history. Performing feats as a Strider earns the adoration of other Striders - social victory. Striders' social victories do not rest on actually strong social bonds, but rather Striders are reminiscent of real-world celebrities who almost feed off of the adoration of an amorphous blob of people defined only by number and what unites them - their adoration for the person who serves as the subject matter. 

Striders then live as thrill-seekers. The Strider Protocol facilitates that. A Strider is able to look skywards and knows from the tales told by those who came before that what exists out there to be seized for themselves is nigh unlimited. There will always be more frontiers to explore, more Teks to wield, more relics to find and forge, more rituals to discover or draft and perfect, more great beasts to slay, more rogue Striders to pursue, more powerful vaults to raid and vault minds to topple. There will always be more, more, more. And so the Strider is never content, driven constantly to go faster, farther and pursue more, at the expense of any and all that can't keep up. 

We see this in the existence of Strider jumpships as described in [[Switchboard Technology]]. The endlessly nomadic lifestyle practically forbids the existence of any kind of home that is not only slightly less mobile if not just as mobile as the nomad who owns it, and as such, most dedicated Striders live out of their jumpships, outfitted with amenities for living but overall serving as highly practical and utilitarian extensions of the Strider themselves. Jumpships do not play by the rules of the Strider Protocol, and so what they sacrifice in pure speed they make up for in carrying cargo, going equivalent distances far more safely, and serving ultimately as a forward base for a Strider's operations. The lifestyle of living out of ships on foreign worlds is again, a resultant of the isolationist nature of the Strider Protocol.

The thrill-seeker mindset is further reinforced by the prohibitively short lifespan of active Striders. The rhetoric is fairly simple in that with so much promise given by the stars above, and the only barrier for accessing it already dispensed with, it would be criminal, indefensible, unforgiveable, to not pursue it in earnest. Doing everything there is to do, experiencing everything there is to experience, all this and then going ever further to find the 'and then some' that's not outrightly promised, but written in the metaphorical fine print. And even though the pursuit of the things meant to add meaning to a short life is what results in the short life in the first place, further rhetoric argues that a long life isn't necessarily a meaningful or enjoyable one. And while this is true, this line of thinking is skewed by the fact that Striders as a whole do not know how to live as anything *other than* Striders, and this is due to the fact that the Strider Protocol cultivates a cult around it where those who possess it are seen as 'more' and those without it - the Grounded - are seen as less.

The tenets of this cult are simple; the life lived by the Grounded is torturous. It is slow. It is colorless. It is lacking in grand cosmic purpose the way the life of a Strider's does in its service to the current. Their 'achievements' are minute and pastoral. They lack power and the means to change anything. They lack the ability to contend with higher things. They - most of all and worst of all - do not pursue legacy the way Striders do; they do not aim to carve as deep a cut in the marble slate of the Switchboard as Striders do. They do not aim to subsist in some manner beyond the years they are allotted, and to the cult of the Strider Protocol, that is sin. The insistence on parleying with the 'slow' - the weak, the sick, the unintelligent, the undriven - is seen as sin. To take actions that tie one down - start families, businesses, organizations - is seen as sin. The Strider Protocol fanatic cannot conceive of the existence of value in things it views as small, slow and simplistic. The Strider Protocol fanatic abhors the idea of doing anything that could serve as some sort of binding opposing their endless pursuit of power and experiences across the Switchboard.    

These fanatics naturally find a home in the Spyndl Academy, in which mere years of training sets them up with like-minded persons that they are able to run alongside and compete with as they see fit. As Operators, purpose is given - bestowed upon them - by a cabal of veteran Striders with aims of their own they pursue. A path towards greatness is lain out; serve the Academy, fight, learn and explore, and the skills and knowledge obtained translates to accolades and more power. Your name will never stop being uttered in the hallowed halls. Your actions will breathe drive and mission into thousands others to come behind you. You will exist even after death in a manner that *matters*. The Academy adopts an almost anti-family stance; spouses are hinderances, children even more so. If you absolutely have to, do the Conjugation, and preferably with another Strider or Academy Operator so that the resulting descendant is fairly capable of fending for themselves. Do nothing that restricts the ability to chase and chase. Never stop. Never settle. Never pursue anything that seems to demand stillness. The only thing that should stop you is death.

And so we can then ask ourselves a final question, what is the shape of a wielder of the Strider Protocol? Ravenously hungry. Its hands and feet are alabaster-white from processions of drinking from the Wellsprings. Between its fingers, under its skin, in its hands - is terrible power and control over the world around it. It moves fast - incredibly so - in any and all contexts. Like an idol in an abandoned shrine, it is incredibly lone in its existence, even if there are many like it. It is a paragon, an emblem of some terrifying doctrine, that makes deities out of ordinary, starry-eyed, dreaming men. It is anti-human and yet terribly human in some perverted way. It burns bright and yet cold, and it dies like a distant star. And from its corpse do newborns like it arise, vocal in what their paragon represented, often violent, but always steadfast. 

The Strider Protocol inculcates in its users a strange kind of human inhumanity, a form of hedonism and masochism, a cocktail of harnessable dysfunction that sees Striders become as blank-faced, apathetic gods, whos fervid discontentment-driven pursuits inevitably cool into a passivity born out of the eventual realization that nothing in the depths of infinity seem interesting enough to chase, or the next height to achieve is so cripplingly high as to break the spirit of all those even considering it. And so the Strider is left with his accolades to rest upon, which are only as relevant as others determine they are. And then they begin a slow, grating rot, a solitary, slow slipping into death as their lattice gradually fails. The shame of it keeps them from making themselves visible, and so very few see how the loftiest Striders die, the information simply reaching them by some means, and rumor taking over, fabricating a tale of defeat at the hands of the truly most tyrannical of the Switchboard's terrors. And that inspires Strider minds to be as them. And the cycle begins anew. 

### Concept: Grounded Philosophy
As it stands, the primary source of narrative conflict in the Switchboard is that of a difference in philosophy between Striders and Grounded. Analyzing the Strider Protocol and its social effects gives a fairly solid idea of the 'philosophy' of Striders, most particularly an analysis of how possessing the Strider Protocol and living as it compels one to to do serves to shape a Strider's perspective on the Switchboard.

We can then begin analysis of the other side of the fence, that of the Grounded and their philosophy. Because just as Striders look down on the Grounded, the Grounded in many ways look down on Striders. And while one would assume that the power and utility of the Strider Protocol would provide a dimension to human experience that makes all other shapes of experience lacking it to appear inferior, deeper inquiry into the subject reveals the many glaring flaws and cracks in Strider philosophy, through which less than savory aspects of human character are accentuated. 

The Grounded's philosophy is formed primarily as a reaction to what has been dubbed 'Strider Inhumanity'. It seeks to analyze every aspect of the philosophy created by the existence of the Strider Protocol and dismiss them in some regard. In short, it is an anti or counter-philosophy.

It begins with the abject isolationism created by the Strider Protocol. Striders are lonely. Even when they manage to forge friendships, these friendships are rarely ever permanent due to the ease with which Striders can create distance from each other, and the various reasons why they may choose to do so. The Strider Protocol - and more specifically, the Academy - are seen as fostering and adopting anti-relationships stances where Striders are incentivized to not form 'ties' with others as the only serve to tie them down. The anti-family and even anti-natalist stance of the Academy is greatly criticized for this, as Grounded philosophy argues that 'things' - plunder from the sky, accolades, straight power - cannot take the place of people.

Not necessarily as a counter-doctrinal method, but definitely running counter to Strider logics, the Grounded value families and descendants. The Grounded see their social victory in the form of parents, spouses and children. What the Grounded value are people and relationships with them, which they view as more tangible, longer lasting - more valuable - than what Striders value.

It ties nicely then into the Grounded living slower lives that Striders. Striders rarely have homes. They have places they were born, and places they may frequent, and places that if they found themselves battered and on the verge of death, that's where they know they'd find people ready to help them, but rarely do Striders have homes that are physical places populated by people. Striders are nomads, and thus anything that is a home to them is something that comes along with them. For many, that's their jumpship. The Grounded do not live this way, and actively criticize it for forgoing the essential concept of roots. Striders do not build things that last. Or build things at all. They arrive and stay only as long as it is comfortable, or practical, or absolutely necessary, and on the first opportunity they are rocketing off again. And in this lack of slowness do they not pause to appreciate the finer things that exist in a given context. As an analogy, imagine trying to judge a city based on how it looks as you pass through it on a fast-moving train. It becomes indecipherable blur, and the conclusion you may draw is that it is merely color melded together that swiftly grows dull. But the Grounded, who live slowly and methodically, also live appreciatively. They grow to value the smaller things and the large things, as opposed to Striders who only value the larger things due to them maintaining some semblance of decipherability even when observing at speed.

Striders are further criticized for not building. Striders are not cultivators or builders. They do not take the time to plant things, nurture them and watch them grow. They are not patient enough to stick through the time-demanding nature of creative processes. When Striders do 'build', their creations are glaringly utilitarian, prioritizing the extraction of maximum utility. When they are done with what they build, they are designed to collapse swiftly and rot or be packed and folded away for reuse elsewhere, leaving the general 'proof' that a Strider was once present being either emptiness or ruin. Because Striders do not attach value to places, they are not driven to further improve those places, leading the Grounded to argue that a universe filled with Striders alone would be filled with nothing but outposts, radio towers, large academy complexes and jumpship fueling stations, all in various states of disrepair. It is the Grounded who build; grand, beautiful cities, works of art and architecture that last years, buildings that drip with history and serve to nurture and shelter the future. The only thing Striders build up is themselves.

Leading further into the criticism of Striders as 'ontologically selfish'. They are incapable of acting without personal incentive or the assurance of it. Striders take out of principle; the Switchboard exists to be taken from and added onto the self. Interpersonal dealings that exist among the Grounded simply do not exist similarly among Striders, and while the Grounded frequently give out of the goodness of heart or understanding that others may need some thing more than they do, Striders are rarely driven to act similarly, seeing every small thing as earned through considerable strife - as theirs, as a part of them like a limb - and simply not something to easily part with. A sort of exception to this is Striders who lead or train other Striders, who naturally will pass down things they are no longer using to those behind them, but this is absolutely not exclusive to Striders.

Striders are also argued as to be incapable of 'simple' fun. Fun to Striders is necessarily grand. It is tackling beasts or exploring dangerous locales or contending with higher powers. Fun for the Grounded is simpler things; cards and picnics and board games and cookouts and simple strolls or sports or community gatherings. It results in Striders being unable to enjoy anything that doesn't cause adrenaline spikes, or demand full utlization of the mind and body and every single skill and power they possess. A Strider is placed in an empty cubical room with no distractions or challenges demanding something from them - and they swiftly turn mad, unable to be left without something to do for too long. The Grounded describe Striders as borderline children.

And these criticisms go further. Striders are never content. They are overtly proud. A considerable number of them are incapable of resolving conflict through any means other than violence. They are destructively competitive with themselves and each other. They do not understand leisure as anything other than doing slightly easier work. They are chemical fiends, and anything that can be described as a 'softer' or more 'relaxing' experience for Striders is facilitated by altering substances. It's talked about in particular how the short lives of Striders is a driving force behind the ways they think. 

Two final major criticisms though, are that of legacy and becoming Slow. The Grounded decry Strider legacies as hollow. A Strider amasses enough things to fill warehouses and enough accolades to fill libraries, and in their passing they are returned to the Current. But all that is left of them is objects and records. Nothing that lives or breathes. The Grounded argue that true legacy is in the form of descendants - children - that take up the feats of their ancestors and continue their tales with their own. Striders do indeed inspire the next generation of Striders, but they often all go on to pursue unrelated things. Striders who start things rarely finish them, and it is uncommon for a Strider to arise and live in a manner that drives change through the wider Strider population.

The second of the last criticisms is that of becoming Slow. Striders who lose their Strider Protocol are broken beyond repair, and the compulsion to suddenly live in manners they never have before - or worse, actively despised - results in deeply wounded subjects that swiftly descend down paths of fiery destructiveness or cold depression. Observed in many cases is suicidal ideation, that sees many Striders viewing death as preferable to living a life where they can no longer fly. The Grounded see this as a final proof of the dysfunction created by the Strider Protocol.

### Concept: The Praxis Clash
The resultant of the opposing philosophical vectors is a unified search for meaning and purpose. Where we see an effect of the differing philosophies is in those who seek to meaning from the other side. Many Grounded see the recruitment posters placed by the Academy and feel a hunger to escape the drudgery of simplicity to chase the stars. And a fair many Striders see the families of the Grounded in the rare moments they spend standing still, and feel a yearning for such a lifestyle.

But the pressure created by fanatics and the easily-led on both sides create a considerable opposing force that demands compliance and living in line. To admit that a rival doctrine has merit is to weaken one's own, and so there is tangible incentive in preserving frigid dealings if not outright animosity with the other side. Institutions like the Academy need its Striders and Operators to remain ever steadfast, and institutions like the Ex-Strider Outreach Initiative only see success in a Switchboard where Strider manners of thinking are actively dissuaded. 

And in this do we have the grounds for a praxis clash. The conflict of the Switchboard exists in constant rivalry between manners of living, in a bid to prove that one is philosophically superior to the other.





