# Teks 2.0
> It was coming sooner rather than later anyway.

The Weave Protocol grants its bearers command over chalk and all things calcic. The Switchboard's Chalkweavers are able to interface directly with its underlying mechanics, interacting with phenomena 'at the ribbon level' as the lowest level at which calcic interaction happens is described. To make ribbon chalk into anything useful, **folding** and **weaving** it into patterns and weaves is necessary, performed through physical  with the hands, devices designed to work with chalk, or rituals that take in chalk and components to fold complex patterns of chalk into being.

But there are levels of weave complexity that are nigh impossible to achieve through other means. Examples are the various calcic machinations that are performed by the Astrolabe, or the workings of a region's calcic interior. While the effects of these machinations can be seen, what produces these effects rarely can - and most of, all can rarely ever be grasped. This is the domain of **equations**; chalk that has grown so proficient at folding chalk through their irreducible complexity that the results of its machinations appears to defy what is understood about chalk and the Weave Protocol. The Strider and Weave Protocols themselves are good examples of this. 

## The Nature of Teks
Teks being chalk equations and thus chalk makes them subject to the familiar rules that govern the functioning of chalk itself. Particularly, this alludes to how Teks are formed. Equations in the Switchboard cannot be created by its denizens, and thus any equation that exists in the Switchboard is a result of spontaneous evolution, followed by a selection process as equations are fairly self-correcting. What causes these equations to spawn has been studied, and the prevalent theories are discussed further down, though summarized; Teks are seemingly a measure put in place by the Astrolabe to mitigate the necessity of large-scale resolutions to its calculus. 

When Teks fully 'mature', they take the most unfortunate form of fairly ordinary-looking weave, which is then swept up into the various calcic transport phenomena in the Switchboard; caught in a flux storm and sent to the Challenger Dark to be caught in the Stardrip Cycle, caught in the calcic draw of a Vault beginning a mighty calculation, blasted away on stellar winds where they are caught and trapped in Wellsprings, only to be discovered often by mining operations or terribly lucky Striders. The actual finding of Teks is discussed further down.

Teks being weave can only function for a Strider or Weaver when integrated with a local lattice, that primarily being the lattice of the subject who aims to use the Tek. Simply using the information affinity 'draw' is enough to integrate a Tek into the lattice of one's body, the interpreter line doing the function of parsing the chalk-weave into an equation. Teks function using the **Five Straits**; they are stored - almost like programs - in the memory line, and occupy a fair bit of space too, so much that most can never wield more than one Tek at a time without adverse consequences. Teks being equations perform their calculations in the computational line, exchanging information with the interpreter while drawing on chalk kept in the potential line and outputting the results of their calculations through the interface line. This particular quality *does* make Teks somewhat vulnerable to certain forms of attack in the Switchboard, but mainly it means that any *thing* with the Five Straits are able to wield Teks, including those who don't even have the Weave Protocol.

So what prompts Teks to form? Seemingly, they emerge from thin air, seeded by apparently nothing, before growing and maturing to a form where they can conveniently fold chalk in a manner that escapes even the most skilled of Weavers. This is not entirely the case. Teks are equations in the literal sense, in that they take in chalk and variables and output folded chalk and answers, with the net change in the Switchboard remaining zero; the metaphorical left hand side equals the equally metaphorical right. Perhaps as a response to the catastrophic resolutions in its past, the Astrolabe adopted new methodologies of calculating the Switchboard; large-scale deployment of chalk capable of doing calculations on regions in space, and then passing the resultant of those calculations to the Astrolabe, instead of the Astrolabe having to draw chalk from all of the Switchboard every time it needs to perform a particularly complex calculation.

What do Teks 'calculating' look like then? Imagine travelling across a frozen tundra, sheets of ice as far as the eyes can see. Blizzards strike without warning, valleys dip below eyelevel and promise colder temperatures, while high peaks threatening heavy exposure. Nights bring truly nail-biting cold, and all but the absolute strongest are felled. And then, without explanation, in your travels you come across a patch of verdantly green grass. Continuing forward you find larger and larger patches, taller grass, now flowers and even bushes, before you find a small tree, growing pleasantly in the inexplicably warm air. Beyond it, a pool of sparkling warm water, summertime fields all around it.

In most cases, this would simply be a fluke with the region's equation, or a psychitect inserting a jarring clause in the equation stack, laughing to themselves at the face they imagine whoever stumbles upon it to have. But in some cases, for reasons that escape even those who do nothing other than study it, the Astrolabe's calculus may require there to be a hot spring in the middle of ice-scorched lands, and the task of realizing such a thing is offloaded to a Tek, that will be present in the local lattice of that environment. 

This, however, is a simple Tek, and an obvious one more so.

Returning to the tundra example, suppose you set up a base camp to begin multi-context study 