# Cryogen's Proposal: The Families
A section related to the work on the great families of the Switchboard, this one devoted to family-related proposals.

## Scope
The family proposals can be read much like appendum to the much larger family document they build off of. Rather than rewriting every family document whenever a major bit of canon is added to them, it is far more reasonable to simply have them here, as additional information and detail on matters related to the family.

In some cases - though it will be greatly avoided as much as possible - there may be conflicts between the contents of a family proposal and the family document. In those circumstances, the family proposal - by virtue of being the most recent - should take precedence. That being said, grievous breaks in parity will be rectified sooner rather than later.

## The Fel-Arcad
### The Order of the Undersol
There exists a discrepancy, a disconnect of sorts among the Fel-Arcad, particularly as regards the administrative structure of the arcologies within which they have come to dwell. This disconnect emerges as a result of the inability to wholly define the place, purpose and thus powers of the Craun Tenders and the Craun Soleri.

In the before-times, the Craun Soleri served both purposes; building and overseeing the arcology as well as the people within it. But as it became apparent that the skillsets needed to warp replichrome and lead people were considerably different from one another, and Soleri as a whole - with time - seemed to be becoming more and more eccentric in their zealotry around the arcologies - often to the detriment of every other thing imaginable, it thus became necessary to divide powers, and thus confer the authority to administrate people upon a newly-formed body. 

However, it became difficult to define what truly were the edges and extents of the Tenders' and the Soleri's power, as the Fel-Arcad as a people - by design - live in such deep interconnection with the arcologies they dwell within that any decision taken by one would inadvertently, inescapably affect the other. For the Craun Tenders, this was expected and justifiable; the logics of governance doctrine by which they operated defined that choosing the well-being of the Fel-Arcad peoples over the physical structure they dwelt within was almost always the objectively correct decision.

The Soleri, however, disagreed. In perhaps a gradual warping of their original purpose that would come to be studied by many who would curiously disappear in the workings of obtaining any conclusive deductions, the Soleri came to view the preservation of the arcologies - the physical structure - as their highest charge, rather than service to the Fel-Arcad peoples, believing that upholding and propagating the arcologies and their derivate doctrine would serve the function of protecting and serving the Fel-Arcad by proxy. And with the Craun Tenders seizing much of their power and now acting above them in hierarchy, they sought to reclaim a grasp on affairs, while minimizing the damage that would have to be caused to obtain it, as well as avoid betraying their intentions. 

And thus - learning, perhaps, from their Rosenthalist ideological cousins - they took on the mantle of subterfuge and the blades of deceit, and formed the **Order of the Undersol**; a Soleri-aligned faction that would work to protect the sanctity of the arcologies from the Fel-Arcad that threatened them, and the Craun Tenders that protected those Fel-Arcad in their 'ignorance'. This aim is achieved through - primarily - the establishment of a covert, arcology-wide surveillance substructure that actively and passively monitors all Fel-Arcad within an arcology, maintaining comprehensive profiles on each. These profiles are fed into purpose-built algorithms that then compute along a slide-rule of compatibility; a numerical measure of how well one can dwell in the arcology environment. 

In a sense, they build and operate surveillance states.

Should certain Fel-Arcad be identified that are viewable as threats to the arcology structure, the Order of the Undersol works towards their elimination. Preferring to avoid outright - even if covert - murder, their major strategies are 're-acclimatization' and exile. The latter is fairly simple, in that the Undersol works towards finding a means to dismiss the subject entirely from the arcology. The methods under *this* are - expectedly - hardly the cleanest, ranging from falsifying information, to framing a subject, to outright psychological warfare to instill a fear of the arcology environment, and thus a need to flee it.

It is the former, re-acclimatization, that is the Undersol's specialty. The Soleri - in all this - understand better than anyone that the arcology model succeeds only with maximal cooperation, from as many Fel-Arcad as possible. Thus they are incentivized to, rather than dismiss subjects they find problematic, instead divide them into groups, with one group being those that would respond well to what is fundamentally psychological warfare strategies. Primarily, they work with three aims in mind;

- Foster pro-arcology and pro-Fel sentiment.
- Cultivate fear, distrust and general ill-will towards the outside world.
- Coerce the formation of 'ties' to the arcology, such as unions or long-term careers.

The latter is perhaps their most insidious, in that their primary stratagem is extensive manipulation of a subject and other parties around them, to cultivate relationships between those who wish to leave an arcology, and others. Because eventually, the Soleri realized that the greatest danger to the arcology wasn't unknowing or even deliberate saboteurs, nor the Craun Tenders that inadvertently enabled them; it was those who grew disillusioned with the arcologies and sought another path outside. These are the primary targets of the Order of the Undersol; ordinary Fel who dare suspect that a better lot awaits them beyond the walls of the arcologies.

Commanded by the pocketed hand of the Soleri, the Order of the Undersol works in the shadows, monitoring the affairs of all Fel-Arcad, under the singular charge that as few as possible are allowed to leave the arcologies, lest the entire institution be undermined, and the mechanics of praxis see the Soleri fade into obscurity. It is the simple fact that the demise of the Soleri and by extension, the craft of arcology building, would most likely lead to the widespread demise of the Fel-Arcad people - that is the final justification for the actions of the Soleri and the Undersol; nothing greater, ironically, than the mere need to survive. 

### The Canon of the Rosenthalists
The Rosenthalists have a number of ideas and doctrines ascribed to them, that set them apart - often rather starkly - from their Fel-Arcad cousins. At the most elementary, and perhaps what sets them apart the most from other Fel, is their belief that the descend directly from Arcad Rosen, the foremost of the Arcad at the time, and later Fel-Arcad. While the Rosenthalists believe that the other Fel-Arcad did indeed also descend from the other Arcad that existed at the time, they claim direct descendance from Rosen himself.

And why in particular they espouse their supremacist doctrine is due to Arcad Rosen having taken a **Danseer** as a partner. Their union is believed to have yielded triplets of Arcad and Danseer heritage, leading them to concluded that - on pure calcic basis - they had possibly the strongest calcic backbone at the time, combining the power of the Danseers with the proficiency of the Arcad.

From these triplets - **Roslet**, **Aavar**, and **Hiorti** - the Rosenthalist trace the three of their great Courts; the **Roslettes**, the **Avarosi** and the **Hiortros**, and to a large extent, every Rosenthalist by birth traces their descendance from one of these three. 

In the earliest days of the dawning era of the Third Kin, following the differentiation into what would become the great families of today, Rosen's descendants - spurned on by their Danseer heritage, as it's been theorized - did indeed attempt to lead the then-Arcad by first cultivating names for themselves in battle, much like the Danseer Skydancers they both lauded and claimed heritage with, and then working to convince the Fel-Arcad to support them in their lofty ambitions for dominance over the Dancirah, in much the same way as - again - the Danseers practiced. However, their aims and methods ran afoul of their father, Arcad Rosen, and the Arcad of the time who had already been majorly swayed by Rosen's manners of thinking. For this reason, the triplets faded into relative obscurity, instead being relegated to merely the spearheads of the Arcad war effort, and eventually leading the Mind Hunts in the fifth - final -  offensive.

It was not long after this that the Refrain struck, and brought about the fall of the Arcad into the now Fel. It was also around this time, or at least some bit earlier, that the document known as the **Redsight** was penned by Arcad Rosen, and it would later form the core of much of Rosenthalist thought. It is unknown why this document was written at all however, and conclusions ranged from dying making him a cynical pessimist, an epiphany had on death's door, or - perhaps the most interesting of all - that it was written as a way to connect with his descendants, in the most Arcad way of all; the conveyance, exchange and entertainment of ideas.

The Fel-Arcad would then go through the nomadic period in their history, and it was during this time that the descendants of the original triplets took on the mantle of their ancestor-kin, refusing to be defined by the tragedy they had been struck with, choosing instead to organize into the Rosenthalist **Courts** as they are now known, secretive circles that sought to preserve and uphold what they believed to be the true wishes of Arcad Rosen and Arcad thought. At the crux of this sentiment was that of a grand ideological victory brought about by the homogenization of peoples, and thus, the homogenization of thought. By ensuring - in a sense - that the Arcad were the dominant thinking beings in the Switchboard, they would demonstrate the purity of their selves and their doctrine, and thus be able to further uphold that same doctrine. Arcad Rosen's egalitarian ideals of fairness and empowerment were only possible when all believed similar, and achieving that aim would require first building a Switchboard of only those receptive of - or already entertaining of - Rosen's ideals. The Redsight, they felt, was justification for this line of thinking, as even Arcad Rosen himself had entertained such ideas.

Thus, the three Rosenthalist factions rapidly built up strength in the Switchboard, doing so by wearing many faces; faces to deal with the other families such as the Sil'khan and the Lancasters, faces to deal with their Fel cousins, faces to deal with each other. But below these masks was forever the core Rosenthalist belief; that they were still Arcad, still descended of a Danseer, still mighty - mightier than all others - by virtue of heritage and doctrine. They were, by all worthwhile metrics and even plenty not so, superior to all other beings that walked the Switchboard, and believed that achieving their ancestor Rosen's vision of peace in the Switchboard would first require that all who would challenge both the reality of their ontology and Rosen's ideals to be subjugated - or annihilated.

It was for this reason and others that they abhorred the Sanscrii arcology when it was built, abhorred the ArcDanseer Nadira when they claimed to speak for Rosen, abhorred the Semblance Doctrine that spilled from his lips, and abhorred their Nadiran Fel cousins for being so eager and willing to take in this doctrine when it was proffered. All of it, to them, was capital heresy, and beyond merely marring the name of Arcad Rosen, it was polluting the Arcad totality with doctrine that they had no reason to believe had ever been proposed by Arcad Rosen. 

It was concluded by the Rosenthalists at large that before their more widespread goal of preparing a Switchboard that only the Arcad could inhabit could take place, they would first have to cleanse the rot that had festered among their own cousins. It is on this note that we then go on to discuss how each Rosenthalist Court manifested the doctrine of their own believed superiority over the other denizens of the Switchboard;

- The descendants of Aavar, the **Avarosi**, and their methodologies of **economic dominance**, **sabotage** and **subterfuge**.
- The descendants of Hiorti, the **Hiortros**, and their methodology of **militancy** and **subjugation**.
- The descendants of Roslet, the **Roslettes**, and their methodology of **ascension**.

The **Avarosi** are perhaps the most forward-facing and yet clandestine of the Rosenthalist courts. Even while active adherents of their beliefs of supremacy, they envision a battle that is won by gradually weakening an enemy by building up their reliance on external powers, while weakening the trust and reliability of internal ones. Through infiltration and subterfuge, they weaken the institutions of other parties in the Switchboard, making them wholly reliant on the Avarosi for a litany of their needs, and gradually eliminating their self-sufficiency and eroding the trust they have in each other. Avarosi agents work with only one thing in mind; dismantlement. By eliminating all opposition without even shedding blood, they pave a smooth path to their future of total dominance.

The **Hiortros** espouse a different approach; that of open, zealous warfare. The most extremist Rosenthalists by far, their methodology from first principles is a simple desire and pursuit of eliminating an enemy. Through targeted strikes they destroy important assets belonging to the Fel-Arcad; fleets, outposts, space installations, even inhabited arcologies, all in the fervor of crusade. Hiring out their services to other unsavory groups in the Switchboard yields them economic resources and shaky alliances, but at their core, they are driven only by a need to scrub the stars of perceived heresy. Many, many parties in the Switchboard have declared the Hiortros an existential threat, even other Rosenthalist factions, but they set out on their mission with the full awareness and intent of making enemies.

The **Roslettes**, are a rather unique Rosenthalist faction. Rather than attacking the enemy from outside or dismantling them from within, the Roslettes seek to attain dominance of the Switchboard through a far more sinister means; ascension into something beyond the Third Kin. Believing the victory conditions sought by their siblings and cousins to ultimately change little about their ontology, the Roslettes have devised an entirely different stratagem, one based on consuming the very weave of the denizens of the Switchboard.

### The Weave-eaters
Let's talk about the Roslettes. They're vampires.

A fundamental design principle of Samsara is to first establish a rock-solid foundation, and then use that to devise all manners of things as one sees fit. When coupled with preexisting concepts, it becomes both doable and viable t