# Hex's Post OctExpan Questions (07-10-22)

https://discord.com/channels/699722310910738513/1026484056759750697/1027789050062585856

## The Relics, Thy Mettle

>Am I missing something... what exactly are the prime relics?

	It's probably not well explained but there are three kinds of Relics, Natural, Artificial and Prime. Prime Relics are a subdivision of Natural relics. Artificial Relics are created by equations devised by Striders, the most notable example of this being the MOD-XX. Natural Relics are created by the evolution process described, where information accumulates in mundane things to grant them information powers.
	
	Prime relics are natural relics that only form under extreme circumstances, and thus have immense power. To delve into more narrative as well as unwritten territory, my idea is Prime relics are formed when a Region's regional equation collapses in upon itself. 

## The Skywards Pursuit

>I'm confused about whether regional stars are manufactured or naturally occurring, especially if they're hooked up to the astrolabe.

>How long is a strider's day, and how is that length determined?

	Regional Stars, for all intents and purposes, don't really exist. A Region's regional equation is responsible for projecting images of celestial bodies on the 'border' of the region's sky. The regional equation fetches the 'Switchboard Time' (which you can interpret as all time elapsed since t=0) from the Astrolabe, and these numbers are fed to the part of the equation that projects the Regional Stars. Just like the sun straight above us means noon, and the moon straight above means midnight, the regional equation projects regional stars that act similarly.

	Except they don't necessarily have to.

	Because regional stars are a projection, they aren't actually obligated to produce certain phenomena based on time. A regional equation can make it's stars immensely dim, so that the region doesn't have 'day' in it's day-night cycle. Additionally, a region can choose to add stars in the sky to commemorate an event (such as the birth/death of an important Strider). Astrolabe or Switchboard time is accessible through other means, such as the Astral Clock in the 'Wayfinding Apparatus' Section.

	It helps to differentiate regional stars, as only some are Regional HOROLOGICAL stars, that is, those concerned with telling time. Some regional stars are - for want of a better word - cosmetic. Imagine if there was a constellation that only appeared in the sky on July 4th, and it was placed there after a vote held among the American people. Something like that.

	Now that I'm writing this, it would've made a lot more sense if I added a section that described 'Regional Time'. A region's regional equation could - for whatever reason - have a seventy-two hour day, with thirty six hours of light and dark. It could have it's night have four stars that dominate it, and it's day only one. This all exists independently of Astrolabe/Switchboard time.

>What is a "super-region" ? addendum: just got the section on this

	This section is also fairly underconstruction. The general idea is complete though. The rest hinges mainly on narrative. 

>Having some trouble visualizing iteration no. 1

	My fault, though I would've liked if you elaborated upon what specifically you had trouble visualizing. I'm going to assume you mean the Terrarium model. The initial idea for regions was that they were snowglobes with glass dome tops, a regional stars would be projected upon these glass domes. I eventualy concluded that this was stupid, but I didn't wipe mentions of it from the actual docu

>If stars can move, how do you keep track of which star is which?

	A question I should've anticipated. Because I'm not nearly as creative as I seem, I offer a couple of answers, all decently contrived. 

	The first is that Law Stars give of a traceable 'signature'. Although Law Stars emit pure random Chalk, there could perhaps be enough of a pattern to it to enable sequencing a signture. My idea is that a star could vary in the rate at which it outputs Chalk, such as five seconds of full (100%) output, thirteen seconds of 45% output, and nine seconds of 10% output, creating a sequence that looks something like [5(100), 13(45), 9(10)]. 

	Another idea. Stars leave trails as they move, much like Chalk leaves streaks on a blackboard. You follow the trail, you find where there the star has gone. What are the ramifications of this? It could be what creates the Malachite/Chalk Streams I described under the 'Weathers' of the sky. Much like water flows from high mountains, Chalk flows in streams from Law Stars. 

> "the Strider Protocol functions as a rocket, beginning with immense momentum that is gradually expended over time. The Void Stride operates more like a subterranean mining drone, gradually boring through great distances under its own power until all fuel is expended." **Sorry Cryo but neither of these analogies communicates what's going on to me**

	Fair. Back to what I envision.

	At some point we're going to have to rework the Srider Protocol as a whole. What I was trying to say here is that the Strider Protocol burns momentum as Striders travel, and there is nearly (ideally) nothing they can do to amass more. A rocket travels in a direction until it burns all fuel and then other forces take over in deciding it's fate. The Void-Stride is - described as best as I can - self-propelled. Depthstriders are slower than regular Striders, but do not run into the issue of being unable to further propel themselves in flight. I am only now realizing how stupid an analogy I used.

	The general idea is Striders Stride by accumulating and then flaring Chalk. Once the Stride has begun, they cannot accumulate and flare more Chalk to produce more forward momentum. Void-Striders work differently in a way I am realizing isn't defined, but boils down to them being able to generate additional forward momentum. Because of this, they don't run any risk of falling into the Void during the Stride.

## The Void

>Gotta be honest Cryo, feels weak. Of course, I could be missing something.

>I don't know how to describe it. Maybe it's my own preconception of the Void rubbing against what you want the void to be, but it feels... nebulous. Less rigorously defined than chalk, for instance. More like soft magic and less like hard magic.

	A prologue.

	The Void document is adpated from two intial documents; the Void Stride - which was the initial Void document, which was very incomplete, and a document that was written when I invoked Scenario 6, "Outreach Initiative". The Outreach Initiative was something I semi-invoked while working on Scenario 3, the resolution parameters being that I would write out what were effectively blog posts to communicate what I was working on for all these months. Most of what is written about the Void was synthesized only while writing that blog post.

	It feels weak because it is. But it doesn't need to stay that way.

>"Occupying a vast majority of the space in the Switchboard is the Interspatial Void. It helps to think of the Switchboard as the surface of a pond, and the Void as all that lurks beneath the water's surface - only in three dimensions. " Does this mean what I think it means? **That the Switchboard "surface" is three-dimensional, and "beneath" the surface is in a fourth-dimensional direction? v cool if so**

	This is absolutely the case. I should've made diagrams. The Void is functionally a fourth dimensional 'down', which is why I so frequently us 'depth' and it's synonyms to describe it. The Void is a 'deep'. It is 'under' the Switchboard. This is perhaps the most solid thing on the Void so far.

>"Veils are regions of the Switchboard where the interspatial void has infinite depth. Because of this, any attempts to cross it using the Strider Protocol is futile; all momentum is burned and the Strider will fall in." **We really need to refine this analogy with some GR or something GR-adjacent, because you're right on the cusp of saying something sensible here**

	I don't know what specifically GR means here. We'll discuss it when you're done with this. 

>Gotta be honest, a sentient or semi-sentient void ain't doin it for me

>The void simply "answers" questions? And there are no rules for how it does that or what you might get out? If you "take" from the void, there's a ... _something_ that comes with what you take, but that something isn't defined?

	Fair.

	I'll have to quote SBL1 to elaborate on this. The first section is from Record 3, where the Overclockers storm the Vault. The section is from the incomplete Record 5, specifically the entry that introduces the 8th and 9th shinies.

### Phase 3, Record 3: The Overclockers Storm the Vault

>A woman stepped forward. She held a complicated analogue machine, placing it to her eyes. She peered through and found mystery, and as she tuned the instrument, the mystery melted away. Understanding flooded her like comforting warmth. She relayed a series of numerals and functions to a man in a robe. He listened and understood, raising his palms to the sky. They became hazy, distorted as a vacuum seemed to envelope them.

>“The Void provides. Stride.”

---
>The man known as Vansa raised his arms, palms turned upwards. The voluminous robes he wore rustled noiselessly, the gold embroidery on the deep purple shifting across the fabric’s surface. It formed equations and laws as the joints in his hand clicked and popped. The first attacker came, an intangible distortion in space moving just under light speed. He shifted faster, his outstretched palm clasping around it, consuming it entirely.

>“The Void shall feed.”

---
> Another entity rushed Vansa. This one was humanoid, throwing a barrage of impossibly swift punches. He weaved and dodged each, slapping one of its balled fists with a hand, disintegrating it into nothing. He feed on its information, simulating it partially. He went low as another punch came, laughing at its futility.

>“The Vault knows not of the Void!” he proclaimed as he threw another palm devouring more of his attacker. At last he took hold of the space around him, collapsing it to a finite point. The woman with the instrument fed him coordinates, and he flung the point towards them. It exploded into a singularity, consuming the wave of entities accumulating there.

---
>“Vansa, Iris, where are we?”

>The woman with the instrument peered through it again, shaking her head.

>“We escaped, but we were thrown off course. They’ve simulated us, faster than we expected.”

>“How annoying. I still don’t know where we are.”

>“The Void granted me sight, and I found a flaw. We’re in an unmonitored test space.” Vansa said at last, nausea catching up with him.

>“Testing what?”

>“I do not know.” He said, retreating away as his stomach churned.

---
>The Doctor sat, Iris mirroring her. Vansa returned with a grimace.

>“Our forces outside will hold off the Operators. You’re right; we should celebrate.” She waved at the man in a robe. “Prepare a meal for us.”

>Vansa smiled. His skin was dark and his head and face devoid of hair, but his eyes shone white. He clasped his hands together, the fabric of his voluminous robes producing a comforting rustle as they weaved together above his skin. They folded and tightened until they clung snugly to his frame. Ornate embroidery covered the deep purple fabric, depicting cosmic mathematics; the movement of planets, the mass of stars, the path of comets.

>“Indulge me first, in a lecture from the Void.”

>At no protest, he proceeded. He placed an open palm before him, looking both women in the eye. Bryanar lay on his side, turned towards the sun, but he listened.

>“The Void is the culmination of nothingness.” Vansa began. “Subtraction of a thing from itself given form. In this the Void lies. What we call ‘nothing’ is a convenience of language and casual observation. There is always ‘something’, and that something is the Void. You can harness the Void, find something in it, but first,” he flexed his open palm outwards. “You must open your hands, heart and mind.”

>He studied the Doctor’s face. She wore a smile.

>Vansa closed his hand, forming a fist, the sinews of his aged hand pulled taut. “To be closed is to be safe, but while one who is closed cannot be taken from, you can also not receive.” With his free hand, he scooped the earth below, pouring it over his fist. Loose sediment clung to it, shaken free by light movement. “To harness the Void, you must embrace _all_ of it. Your hands be open. It is why I fight with my palms; to an outsider, it is mere martial art, but to a priest of the Void, it is a gesture as natural as breathing. By your palms, you take. By your palms, you receive.”

>His fingers uncurled as something swirled in his palms. A singularity. “Ask of the void, and it shall provide. Not always what you need, not always what you want, but its depth is infinite, and its bosom is generous. It will always give you something, and then a little more. The ‘little more’ can be many things, but it must be taken. Such is the nature of the Void.”

>The swirl vanished as he waved his hand over the grass at their feet. One by one, plates of food appeared, seemingly forming from gathering air. Vansa smiled at their brightening faces.

>“The Void provides.” He said. The Doctor nodded.

---
>“What ‘little thing’ did the void provide with this meal, Vansa?”

>The Doctor’s tone was flat. Vansa attempted to gauge her intent, failing to do so, he relinquished.

>“Coordinates with no context, and a word of caution.”

>“It speaks?” Iris asked. She was the youngest, audible in her constant exuberance when not under fire.

>“Occasionally. It says precious little and often it carries little weight. Very much like a horoscope in that regard.”

---
### Unreleased Phase 5, 'Eighth' Entry

>The desert beyond her door rose and fell, dunes reaching higher than the broken towers that stood on them, thousands of the ruined hollow blocks, standing offensively, defiant even, an array that stretched so far they faded into obscurity. The shadows they cast were worn by others like cloaks, only their tops glowing orange, resembling torches that burned with steady abandon, unaware – uncaring – of the human that had broken them, and because they stood despite her wrath – only angered her further.

>The wind cooled her restrained rage, and brought with it a noise so foreign to this place she had forgotten what it was. She racked through the rusted file cabinets of her mind, searching for what the low rumble could possibly be, and as she did the wind only grew and the sound only multiplied, until it declared itself and its presence; an apex predator’s unmistakable roar.

>An engine.

>Confusion and fear wafted upwards from the bubbling in her stomach as her fingers curled into fists. Something was coming. She turned on a heel, ducking back into her abode, rapidly scaling a ruined ladder hammered into the wall, the metal screeching in wicked protest. She reached the top, peering through a gap in the blockwork, eyes scanning the horizon, searching – there – she could see it, a cloud of sand running parallel to the street below, more sand tossed into the wind as whatever was approaching made its way…

>It disappeared behind a building, out of her line of sight. She was not prepared for this – had not prepared for this. The wind resumed. It told her to breathe, so she did, and the wind filled her lungs, hot and wicked, serrated in its passing, but a reminder of what she was. A Strider. How long she had gone without striding was an answer consumed by time itself, but she had mourned enough what she had lost. Now was the time to fight.

>She raised her hands, her hollow palms staring back at her like empty eyes. The emptiness accused her. The emptiness was undeniable. The emptiness was the void. And from the void, you must take.

>With two fingers on her right, she reached into the void of her left, the digits cold as the delved once again into the realm that housed what once was. Through them she could feel the infinite depth once again, the generosity awaiting, only words away. All she had to do was ask.

>First, she took. The fletching emerged first, blacker than a new moon’s sky, followed swiftly by a shaft of carved obsidian. The head of the arrow devoured all light, pulsing dull black, honed to a sharpness only attainable by Law instead of atomic structure. Her fingers delved again, and then she asked, hearing her voice again. It had grown foreign as well.

>“What approaches?”

>And the void answered.

>_Solace._

---

	As is typical allow me to restate what I envisioned.

	I am not surprised you take issue with a semi/sentient Void. I think narratively, it is essential for what I want the Void to be. It's meant to be a sort of 'counterpart' to the defined rigidity of Chalk. Chalk is meant to be a science. It's behaviour is meant to be calculabe and subsequently, predictable. Anything new Chalk does is simply something it's always been able to do. The Void, specifically the Void as a Power, functions differently.

	You've probably heard me use the expression 'celestial blackjack dealer'. It's what the Void as a power basically is. Anarchy. Randomnes. The kind of anarchy and randomness you can only expect from, effectively, a jester god.

	The Void serves an important purpose as a narrative element. Someone Takes from the Void; they get power and something. What's the something? Whatever I so choose. It advances the plot, or pauses it, or sends it in a new direction. It changes characters or grounds them further in their nature. The Void as a Power and the Void as a Being are a two-pronged fork in my toolbox of authorial powers.

	While we absolutely can work to reconcile the Void as a Location with more conventional physics, other elements of it - almost mandatorily - must remain somewhat the same. The story I want to write needs it to be so. I absolutely encourage you to contribute on the issue, but I also need you to know that on some particular elements I am more reulctant to change things.

	We will absolutely look over your relating the Void to blackholes and other things you mentioned.
	

^7b99b0

---
>Not too thrilled about the void "consuming" information either. _Gathering_ information I can see, information pooling in regions of naturally bent void, and void bending in response to information

	This makes more sense. We will amend the Void as a Location to feature this, especially as so much of how you envision the Void to work requires it's innate curvature.

>Confused by the name "Sect of Vanity". Am I misinterpreting, or does the name not line up with what the sect represents?

	Quoting from the actual document;
	
	> The Sect of Vanity studies the nature of the Void to devour and from this reaches a conclusion; all things will be consumed eventually, and as such it is preferable to live simple lives of devotion and service to fellow man. Taken further, it is believed the self must be made poor so that the Void may be made rich, and many offer up all of their possessions to the Void, and often seek out items of note to give to the Void as offerings. Giving to the Void attunes them further with its depths, and their powers of the Void grow.
	
	It turns out you're right, I completely botched what the word means because I've only ever heard it used in religious contexts. There's definitely a better (correct) word to be used here. We will dicuss.

>The Dirac Sea is already a thing, btw.

	I wasn't aware you were a fan of Evangelion, doctor.

>"Void interacts with Chalk similarly, but markedly differently to Glass. Chalk can be a stream of (10101) which represents information. Void by virtue of it being a 'void' that information is drawn to fill, replaces it with (VVVVV), an absolute absence of information, but a presence of Void. Glass however, replaces chalk with (XXXXX), an absence of information, and an inability for anything to take it's place." **you completely lost me with this**

	Fair. Reading over it, I'm not entirely sure what I intended to say here either. Again, I loop back to what I envision.

	There is an interation of Ven-2 where it is built on a three-sided power system of Chalk, Void and Glass. Glass is functionally 'anti-Chalk' (and because it only makes sense, anti-Void), in that Chalk and Void cannot exist where there is Glass. Void is meant to be - again, for want of a better word - a 'substance' of it's own, who's nature is to draw information towards it and 'consume' it. I draw blanks on where I am supposed to go with this. You are lost and so am I. This we will have to discuss.

>"This also manifests as a physical attraction resembling magnetism," **not how magnetism works**

	This is my heathen uneducated self using the ghosts and ideas of words to describe things. It's not even that important as the section where this is is from a Legacy Void document (the blog post one I think). 'Tools from the Void' are effectively Void-Relics, and the document was written before Relics existed in the current state they do now. I think it will be easier to simply have Relics and Void-Relics, and find a means to explain the existence of the latter. More to discuss.

---
## Clocking
>Under Clocking: "This is all done using a 'Tek' (more a pseudo-Tek) known as the 'Dash-One' Law. It dictates how many times an event occurs in a singular second." **does this count as a mention of Laws that should be ignored?**

	Yes. Law here could be replaced with another word, such as 'rule'.

>"2. **Stage Two Clocking; abstract interpretative clocking**. A parameter that is both dynamic and measurable can be clocked. Location can be clocked, transforming it into random data and making the Clocker untraceable." **Not clear to me how this relates to frequency manipulation, if frequency manipulation is the fundamental power at play here.**

	Damn it all. Yet another holdover from dead drafts, and an idea I realize simply doesn't work. The idea here was that you could 'Clock' things that weren't necesarily 'events', such as location, the idea being that if you clocked your location, anything trying to track your location would get results that changed several times a second. It borders on nonsense, but maybe now that you know what I was trying to say, you can make further sense of it and save the concept.

>Also, I don't know what you mean by a "dynamic and measurable" parameter.

	Neither do I really. It's jargon. I think what I meant was that you could clock anything that changes and the change can be measured, such as a pendulum moving back and forth. Clocking is something I will need your help with working through.

>Also also, if this is just a broad-spectrum frequency manipulation tactic, doesn't this apply to any event whatsoever? Events that happen once could be repeated. I could explode someone's heart by upclocking their heartbeat. Or just kill them by downclocking it. Don't neurotransmitters work by frequency of conduction "spikes" between neurons? You could disrupt thought altogether

>Not to mention _atoms themselves_ operate by frequencies. This is just a wholesale ability to turn anything into amorphous goop. Or at high levels, you're basically a god.

	In a strange way, we reach the core of why the Samsara 'Community' exists. You're absolute right, with Clocking, you are close to a god. We have no choice but to work through how to make it not so.


## Closing Remarks
	I'm glad that this early on, we're already getting down to the technical. It would probably help to outline a sort of 'path' for discussions. With that said however, I am unsure what should be tackled first. 

	My thoughts are that we tackle the Strider Protocol first and rectify it's shoddy physics. Then we move on to a complete overhaul of the Void as a Location, again, to rectify it's shoddy physics. We take a gander at clocking after all that, and then talk about other things such as the SkyPur related elements, which will mainly be updating the document with new ideas. 

	Thanks for your continued interest.

# Post Discussion
- Void compatibility with General Relativity discussion with Hex; https://discord.com/channels/699722310910738513/1026484056759750697/1028757316406870108
- 