A physiological consequence of the all-encompassing nature of chalk in the Switchboard is that this include its denizens. The dwellers in the Switchboard are made of chalk, as is everything else, and as such they react differently to physical damage in various forms.

The general determinant of how physical damage is manifested is dependent on the nature of the **top-layer lattice** that comprises the overwhelming material of calcic material that makes a body. Playing the role of 'flesh' as we understand is instead woven chalk, bestowed with the property-weaves necessary to replicate the nature of conventional flesh. This flesh analogue, however, sustains damage fairly differently from denizens of the Switchboard that have undergone **calcification**, where continuous exposure to highly-pure chalk results in the extremities and occasionally other parts of the body having their constituent weave lose much of its original properties, replaced instead with immensely hard and pure plain chalkweave. This results in a subject appearing to be 'taken over' by chalk, almost as if becoming something akin to a marble statue. This particular transformation results in a top-level lattice that is considerably more resistant to damage, but does result in it taking damage in new ways.

##### Lattice Flesh
Flesh being weaker weave is prone to being **cut**, **impacted** and **peeled**. Caedometric and breach attacks do the former two respectively, and physically they are fairly simple to imagine, cuts manifesting as a grooved loss of material, and impact damage being visible dents - almost as if in sheet metal or soft clay - where the damage was inflicted. 

**Peeling**, on the other hand, is generally the result of **unravelling** attacks and damage forms. Weave comes undone and ribbon trails away from the epicenter of the damage point, a visible loss of material present. Battle-damaged denizens of the Switchboard frequently have great trails of ribbon trailing behind them, off of the exposed bits of their flesh, like ragged flags and battle standards. The various regenerative abilities in the Switchboard often draw these ribbons back into the lattice, reweaving them back in accordance with the ledgers in the memory strait.

Various **inductive effects** manifest physically on the flesh, dictated by the equations or ritualism that make up the effect. Burns char the flesh-lattice different colors, poisons give it sickly pallor; plenty along those lines. Healing undoes these effects as well. 

##### Calcified Flesh
The flesh of calcified denizens of the Switchboard manifests a bit differently. Due to the hardness of the material that now makes up much of their body, damage sustained interacts with it as one would expect physical damage to interact with solid marble.

A common grievance shared by those with calcified lattices is how visually vulnerable they are to **scratches, scuffs, nicks and chips**, caused by even minor physical damage inflicted to the calcified region, giving the subject the appearance of aged sculpted stonework, weathered by age and perhaps poor handling. Passively, this damage is regenerated by the subject's internal mechanisms, and thus isn't too great a concern for many.

As incident physical damage increases in severity, so too does the structural damage reflected on the calcified subject. **Cracks** and **fractures**. Cracks are less sever, being only minor breaks in the continuity of the lattice material. Often they form around both powerful cuts from caedometric sources, or at the sites of breach damage. Fractures are a result of one of the ways calcification has been **harnessed** by the many afflicted by it; the calcified, plain-chalk chalkweave that makes up the bulk of the calcified mass is very suitable ground for modification with additional weave, and many choose it to grant it additional properties through ritualism. The most common, however, is a partially or total reweaving of the mass entirely; peeling back the weave, detangling it, and then weaving it back into stronger form much like multi-corded rope, then weaving this corded rope weave back into the limb. While this does lend the lattice considerable passive strength and resistance at no cost to the subject, it does mean that sufficient enough damage can cause a total discontinuity - a **fracture** - in the rigid structure - as it is, in a sense, braided stone.

**Splintering** is another common form of damage sustained by those who have been calcified, manifesting as the rigid calcic structure being pulled or shorn wickedly in some fashion, resulting in sharp bits of upturned, fragmented material jutting from the site. It is also not uncommon for sever **breaks** to occur in the calcified structure, as well as for it to **shatter** entirely, should it fall victim to particularly critical incident damage. Repairing this damage generally requires retrieving lost material, particularly in the case of shattering.

Calcified flesh also **unravels** as well, entirely similar to conventional lattice flesh. Usage of calcic abilities and sustaining unravelling damage results in the peeling of the top-level lattice.

Sustaining damage on calcified lattice also consistently yields a measure of **dust chalk**, suffused into the local environment. Often, tussles between particularly skilled chalkweavers results in dust piles left behind.

##### General
Some general notes across both.

- The Void-originating **siphon** damage often peels material right off of the top-layer lattice, while leaving behind violet scarring as a testament to its effects. This scarring affects lattice flesh and calcified flesh both, with the effects more visible on calcified flesh due to it usually being white in color. 

- (A note on the negentropic effects of glass made manifest)



### Terminology
### Terminology
An elaboration on the terms used in Strider combat.

**Weaving** is forming something out of ribbon chalk. If an attack uses primarily raw ribbon chalk and equation in its formation, that attack is said to be **woven**. Weave-centric attacks are the ones highlighted under the [[On Weave and Warfare#Weave Powers|Weave Powers]] sections of this document. Striders 'weave' constructs such as equation grenades or shields to aid them in combat. 

A **Cast** is a broad term applied to any Strider power that is generally defined by exclusivity or complexity. A Strider 'casts' their Tek, 'casts' with their relic, and 'casts' rituals. If an power is granted by a [[The Blank-Slate Mind#Titular Powers|title]], it is 'casted' as well. A Strider is said to be 'preparing a cast' if they are winding up to use one of these abilities. Unlike Weaves, Casts typically have 'cooldowns', or some constraint that prevents them from having constant uptime - unless otherwise stated.

### Arsenal Classification & Terminologies
The culmination of all gear, abilities, casts and powers possessed by a subject in the Switchboard is their **arsenal**. Elaborated upon more fully in the Super-Classes section above, in this section we take a look at the arsenal classifications for the superclasses as well as relevant terminologies that aid in describing and understanding what is mean by the Switchboard's various forms of power.

**Gear**: The lowest 'tier' of arsenal classifications, and describes the **majorly physical weaponry** wielded by actors in the Switchboard. While some gear-_reliant_ powers are also in this category, it refers to the tangible weaponry themselves.

| Chalkweavers | Depthstriders                                                 | Pale Amarans |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| T1           | T1                                                            | T1           |
|              | T3 <br/>- Gifts from the Void<br/>- Possessions from the Void |              |
|              | T5<br/>- Shaped Arms                                          |

**Abilities**: The defining characteristic of an ability is that it must be something that can be performed **innately**. It refers to all of the powers that an actor in the Switchboard possesses usually by virtue of their bodily composition, such as possessing the Five Straits and the Weave Protocol, an attunement to the depths, or pale amara implantations. These abilities are combined with physical prowess in their execution, and are an actors basest level powers.

As an example, weave strikes, charges and shields are **woven abilities**, so called as they are woven into being using chalk and the innate power of the Weave Protocol. Depthstriders' ability to **manipulate curvature** is a result of their ability to fabricate **negative information** and thus induce fourth-dimensional depth and altitude. Pale Amaran's reconcile elements of both using the **polarity** provided by pale amara integrations into their lattice, allowing for **spectrum weave** and **chaotic curvature manipulation**.

| Chalkweavers | Depthstriders                         | Pale Amarans                                                               |
|--------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| T2           | T2                                    | T2/3 (Polar White)                                                         |
| T5           | T5<br/>- Chronodynamism               | T2/3<br/>- Polar Black: Point Collapse<br/>- Polar Black: Point Expulsion) |
|              | T3<br/>- Draw Strike<br/>- Formshift  |

**Casts**: Casts describe a swathe of Switchboard powers defined most simply by a jump in complexity. Differing from abilities but not wholly, casts are often reliant on something external, such as consumable ingredients, existing phenomena, or the acquisition of secondary power sources. Casts may also involve using **abilities** in more advanced ways, and in this category are usually the most powerful powers available to actors in the Switchboard. Rituals, 

For example, **rituals** of both the calcic and horizon variety are 'casted'. Most Tek-granted powers are casts as well, as they are dependent on the Tek to function. Depthstrider's **Deep Hollows** are casts as well, reliant on the conviction of the caster in the Void. For their sheer complexity alone, the **Aura Strikes** and **Full Spectra** abilities are casts as well. Judging by the fact most high-level parts of an actor's arsenal are considered casts, you might conclude the **Flash Protocol** would be a cast as well. Conversely, it is not, as it is reliant on the Strider Protocol - an innate ability - thus making it an ability-level power. Powers granted by **gear** such as Relics and Tools from the Void are considered casts as well.

| Chalkweavers | Depthstriders | Pale Amarans |
|--------------|---------------|--------------|
| T3           | T4            | T4           |
| T4           |               | T5           |

**Powers**: 'Power' is used fairly loosely in the Samsara canon, used to describe basically any 'thing' that an actor can do that would be filed under the department of 'supernatural' if performed in our world, for example. 'Powers' used more specifically however, refers to power granted by very external systems that are fairly removed from those that benefit from the resultant of that system's enginery. **Praxis powers** are good example of this, hinging on the Switchboard's transcendent interplay of doctrine versus doctrine. **Titular powers** are similar, drawing on the collective power placed behind names and titles that rise to lauded or infamous status in the Dancirah. 

> Something that breaks the mold a little bit are **chromegrafts.** Chromegrafts are not like the Weave Protocol in that cybernetic installations are not innate. That being said, the powers granted by a cybernetic can hardly be considered a cast, as that would be putting, say, a wrist-mounted machine gun at the same tier with grand rituals. For this reason, chromegrafts are treated as **abilities**, as their very tightly-interwoven nature with an actors lattice should allow for consensus that a power granted by a regular arm and a chrome one aren't different enough to warrant a differentiation in category.
