# Cryogen's Proposals: The Families
A section related to the work on the great families of the Switchboard, this one devoted to family-related proposals.

## The Fel-Arcad
### The Order of the Undersol
There exists a discrepancy, a disconnect of sorts among the Fel-Arcad, particularly as regards the administrative structure of the arcologies within which they have come to dwell. This disconnect emerges as a result of the inability to wholly define the place, purpose and thus powers of the Craun Tenders and the Craun Soleri.

In the before-times, the Craun Soleri served both purposes; building and overseeing the arcology as well as the people within it. But as it became apparent that the skillsets needed to warp replichrome and lead people were considerably different from one another, and Soleri as a whole - with time - seemed to be becoming more and more eccentric in their zealotry around the arcologies - often to the detriment of every other thing imaginable, it thus became necessary to divide powers, and thus confer the authority to administrate people upon a newly-formed body. 

However, it became difficult to define what truly were the edges and extents of the Tenders' and the Soleri's power, as the Fel-Arcad as a people - by design - live in such deep interconnection with the arcologies they dwell within that any decision taken by one would inadvertently, inescapably affect the other. For the Craun Tenders, this was expected and justifiable; the logics of governance doctrine by which they operated defined that choosing the well-being of the Fel-Arcad peoples over the physical structure they dwelt within was almost always the objectively correct decision.

The Soleri, however, disagreed. In perhaps a gradual warping of their original purpose that would come to be studied by many who would curiously disappear in the workings of obtaining any conclusive deductions, the Soleri came to view the preservation of the arcologies - the physical structure - as their highest charge, rather than service to the Fel-Arcad peoples, believing that upholding and propagating the arcologies and their derivate doctrine would serve the function of protecting and serving the Fel-Arcad by proxy. And with the Craun Tenders seizing much of their power and now acting above them in hierarchy, they sought to reclaim a grasp on affairs, while minimizing the damage that would have to be caused to obtain it, as well as avoid betraying their intentions. 

And thus - learning, perhaps, from their Rosenthalist ideological cousins - they took on the mantle of subterfuge and the blades of deceit, and formed the **Order of the Undersol**; a Soleri-aligned faction that would work to protect the sanctity of the arcologies from the Fel-Arcad that threatened them, and the Craun Tenders that protected those Fel-Arcad in their 'ignorance'. This aim is achieved through - primarily - the establishment of a covert, arcology-wide surveillance substructure that actively and passively monitors all Fel-Arcad within an arcology, maintaining comprehensive profiles on each. These profiles are fed into purpose-built algorithms that then compute along a slide-rule of compatibility; a numerical measure of how well one can dwell in the arcology environment. 

Should certain Fel-Arcad be identified that are viewable as threats to the arcology structure, the Order of the Undersol works towards their elimination. Preferring to avoid outright - even if covert - murder, their major strategies are 're-acclimatization' and exile. The latter is fairly simple, in that the Undersol works towards finding a means to dismiss the subject entirely from the arcology. The methods under *this* are - expectedly - hardly the cleanest, ranging from falsifying information, to framing a subject, to outright psychological warfare to instill a fear of the arcology environment, and thus a need to flee it.

It is the former, re-acclimatization, that is the Undersol's specialty. The Soleri - in all this - understand better than anyone that the arcology model succeeds only with maximal cooperation, from as many Fel-Arcad as possible. Thus they are incentivized to, rather than dismiss subjects they find problematic, instead divide them into groups, with one group being those that would respond well to what is fundamentally psychological warfare strategies. Primarily, they work with three aims in mind;

- Foster pro-arcology and pro-Fel sentiment.
- Cultivate fear, distrust and general ill-will towards the outside world.
- Coerce the formation of 'ties' to the arcology, such as unions or long-term careers.

The latter is perhaps their most insidious, in that their primary stratagem is extensive manipulation of a subject and other parties around them, to cultivate relationships between those who wish to leave an arcology, and others. Because eventually, the Soleri realized that the greatest danger to the arcology wasn't unknowing or even deliberate saboteurs, nor the Craun Tenders that inadvertently enabled them; it was those who grew disillusioned with the arcologies and sought another path outside. These are the primary targets of the Order of the Undersol; ordinary Fel who dare suspect that a better lot awaits them beyond the walls of the arcologies.

Commanded by the pocketed hand of the Soleri, the Order of the Undersol works in the shadows, monitoring the affairs of all Fel-Arcad, under the singular charge that as few as possible are allowed to leave the arcology, lest the entire institution be undermined, and the mechanics of praxis see the Soleri fade into obscurity. It is the simple fact that the demise of the Soleri and by extension, the craft of arcology building, would most likely lead to the widespread demise of the Fel-Arcad people - that is the final justification for the actions of the Soleri and the Undersol; nothing greater, ironically, than the mere need to survive. 